7:1 A Psalm of David. Which He Sang unto the Lord Concerning the Words of Chusi, the Son of Jemeni.
7:2 O Lord my God, in Thee have I put my hope; save me from them that persecute me, and do Thou deliver me.
7:3 Lest at any time like a lion he seize my soul, when there is none to redeem me, nor to save.
7:4 O Lord, my God, if I have done this, if there be injustice in my hands,
7:5 If I have paid back evil to them that rendered evil unto me, then let me fall back empty from mine enemies.
7:6 Then let the enemy pursue my soul, and take it, and let him tread down my life into the earth, and my glory let him bring down into the dust.
7:7a Arise, O Lord, in Thine anger, exalt Thyself to the furthest boundaries of Thine enemies.
7:7b And arouse Thyself, O Lord my God, in the commandment which Thou hast enjoined, (8a) and a congregation of peoples shall surround Thee
7:8b And for their sakes return Thou on high. (9a) The Lord shall judge the peoples.
7:9b Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, and according to mine innocence within me.
7:10 Let the wickedness of sinners be ended, and do Thou guide the righteous man, O God, that searchest out the hearts and reins.
7:11 Righteous is my help from God, Who saveth them who are upright of heart.
7:12 God is a judge that is righteous, strong and forbearing, and inflicteth not wrath every day.
7:13 Unless ye be converted, His glittering sword shall He furbish; He hath bent His bow, and hath made it ready.
7:14 And on it He hath made ready the instruments of death, His arrows for them that rage hotly hath He perfected.
7:15 Behold, he was in travail with unrighteousness, he hath conceived toil and brought forth iniquity.
7:16 He opened a pit and dug it, and he shall fall into the hole which he hath made.
7:17 His toil shall return upon his own head, and upon his own pate shall his unrighteousness come down.
7:18 I will give praise unto the Lord according to His righteousness, and I will chant unto the name of the Lord Most High.
