9:1 For the End: A Psalm of David Concerning the Hidden Things of the Son.
9:2 I will confess Thee, O Lord, with my whole heart, I will tell of all Thy wonders.
9:3 I will be glad and rejoice in Thee, I will chant unto Thy name, O Most High.
9:4 When mine enemy be turned back, they shall grow weak and shall perish before Thy face,
9:5 For Thou hast maintained my judgement and my cause; Thou hast sat upon a throne, O Thou that judgest righteousness.
9:6 Thou hast rebuked the heathen, and the ungodly man hath perished; his name Thou hast blotted out for ever, and unto ages of ages.
9:7a The swords of the enemy have utterly failed, and his cities Thou hast destroyed.
9:7b The remembrance of him hath perished with a resounding noise, (8a) but the Lord for ever abideth.
9:8b In judgement hath He prepared His throne, (9) and He himself will judge the world in righteousness; He will judge the peoples in uprightness.
9:10 And let them that know Thy name hope in Thee, for Thou hast not forsaken them that seek Thee, O Lord.
9:11 And let them that know Thy name hope in Thee, for Thou hast not forsaken them that seek Thee, O Lord.
9:12 Chant unto the Lord Who dwelleth in Sion, proclaim ye His ways among the nations.
9:13 For He that maketh enquiry for blood hath remembered them, He hath not forgotten the cry of the paupers.
9:14 Have mercy on me, O Lord; see my humiliation which I have suffered from mine enemies,
9:15 O Thou that dost raise me up from the gates of death, that I may declare all Thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion.
9:16a We will rejoice in Thy salvation. The heathen are ensnared in the destruction which they have wrought;
9:16b In this snare which they hid hath their foot been caught.
9:17 The Lord is known by the judgements which He executeth; in the works of his own hands hath the sinner been caught.
9:18 Let sinners be turned away unto hades, yea, all the nations that are forgetful of God.
9:19 For the poor man shall not be forgotten to the end; the patience of the paupers shall not perish for ever.
9:20 Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before Thee.
9:21 O Lord, set a lawgiver over them; let the heathen know that they are but men.
9:22 Why, O Lord, hast Thou gone to stand afar off? Why dost Thou overlook us in times of well-being and in afflictions?
9:23 When the ungodly man is arrogant, the poor man burneth within; they are caught in the counsels which they devise.
9:24 For the sinner praiseth himself in the lusts of his soul, and the unrighteous man likewise blesseth himself therein.
9:25 The sinner hath provoked the Lord; according to the magnitude of his wrath, he careth not;
9:26a God is not before him. Profane are his ways in every season,
9:26b Thy judgements are removed from his sight, over all his enemies shall he gain dominion.
9:27 For he said in his heart: I shall not be shaken; from generation to generation shall I be without harm.
9:28 With cursing is his mouth filled, and with bitterness and deceit; under his tongue are toil and travail.
9:29 He sitteth in ambush with the rich in secret places, that he may slay the innocent;
9:30a His eyes are set upon the poor man. He lieth in wait in a secret place like a lion in his den;
9:30b He lieth in wait to seize upon the poor man, to seize upon the poor man when he draweth him in.
9:31 In his snare will he humble himself, he will bow down and fall while gaining dominion over the poor.
9:32 For he said in his heart: God hath forgotten; He hath turned away His face, that He might not see unto the end.
9:33 Arise, O Lord my God, let Thy hand be lifted high; forget not Thy paupers to the end.
9:34 Why hath the ungodly one provoked God? For he hath said in his heart: He will not make enquiry.
9:35a Thou seest, for Thou understandest travail and anger, that Thou mightest deliver him into Thy hands.
9:35b To Thee hath the beggar been abandoned; for the orphan art Thou a helper.
9:36 Break Thou the arm of the sinner and of the evil man; his sin shall be sought out and be found no more.
9:37 The Lord shall be king for ever, and unto the ages of ages. Ye heathen shall perish out of His land.
9:38 The desire of the poor hast Thou heard, O Lord; to the preparation of their heart hath Thine ear been attentive,
9:39 To judge for the orphan and the humble, that man may no more presume to be haughty upon the earth.
