[Lectio1]
From the Proverbs of Solomon
!Prov 3:1-6
My son, forget not my law, and let thy heart keep my commandments; for they shall add to thee length of days, and years of life, and peace. Let not mercy and truth leave thee: bind them about thy neck, and write them in the tables of thy heart, and thou shalt find grace and good discipline before God and men. Have confidence in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not upon thy own prudence; in all thy ways think on Him, and He will direct thy steps.

[Responsory1]
R. Forsake me not, O Lord, the father and ruler of my life, that I may not fall in the sight of my adversaries:
* Let not my enemy rejoice over me.
V. Take hold of arms and shield, and rise up to help me.
R. Let not my enemy rejoice over me.

[Lectio2]
!Prov 3:7-10
Be not wise in thine own conceit, fear God, and depart from evil; for it shall be health to thy navel, and moistening to thy bones. Honour the Lord with thy substance, and give Him of the first of all thy fruits; and thy barns shall be filled with abundance, and thy presses shall run over with wine.

[Responsory2]
R. For Thy judgments are great, O Lord, and Thy words unspeakable:
* Thou hast magnified Thy people and honoured them.
V. Thou didst lead them through the Red Sea, and didst carry them through a great water.
R. Thou hast magnified Thy people and honoured them.

[Lectio3]
!Prov 3:11-15
My son, reject not the discipline of the Lord, neither do thou faint when thou art rebuked by Him; for whom the Lord loveth He correcteth, and as a father in the son He pleaseth Himself. Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom, and is rich in prudence. The purchasing thereof is better than the merchandise of silver, and her fruit than the chief and purest gold; she is more precious than all riches, and all the things that are desired are not to be compared with her.

[Responsory3]
R. The things that are in the heart of men, Thy eyes see, O Lord, and in Thy book all things shall be written:
* Man seeth in the face, but God in the heart.
V. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the thoughts of minds.
R. Man seeth in the face, but God in the heart.
&Gloria
R. Man seeth in the face, but God in the heart.
