[Ant 1]
Wisdom * hath built herself a house, she hath hewn out seven pillars, she hath subdued the nations unto herself, she hath trodden under foot by her own power the necks of the proud and of the lofty.

[Lectio1]
Here begin the Proverbs of Solomon
!Prov 1:1-6
1 The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel,
2 to know wisdom and discipline,
3 to understand the words of prudence, and to receive the instruction of doctrine, justice, and judgment, and equity:
4 to give subtilty to little ones, to the young man knowledge and understanding.
5 A wise man shall hear and shall be wiser: and he that understandeth shall possess governments.
6 He shall understand a parable, and the interpretation, the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.

[Responsory1]
R. In the beginning, before God made the earth, before He established the depths, before He brought forth the fountains of waters, 
* Before the mountains were settled, before all the hills the Lord begot me.
V. When He prepared the heavens, I was present, disposing all things with Him.
R. Before the mountains were settled, before all the hills the Lord begot me.

[Lectio2]
!Prov 1:7-14
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Hear, O my son, the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: that grace may be added to thy head, and a chain of gold to thy neck. My son, if sinners shall entice thee, consent not to them. If they shall say: Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us hide snares for the innocent without cause: let us swallow him up alive like hell, and whole as one that goeth down into the pit: we shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoils: cast in thy lot with us, let us all have one purse.

[Responsory2]
R. I alone have compassed the circuit of heaven, and have walked in the waves of the sea, in every nation and in every people I have had the primacy:
* I have trodden under foot by my own power the necks of the proud and of the lofty.
V. I dwell in the highest places, and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.
R. I have trodden under foot by my own power the necks of the proud and of the lofty.

[Lectio3]
!Prov 1:15-19
My son, walk not thou with them: restrain thy foot from their paths. For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood. But a net is spread in vain before the eyes of them that have wings. And they themselves lie in wait for their own blood, and practise deceits against their own souls. So the ways of every covetous man destroy the souls of the possessors.

[Responsory3]
R. Send forth, O Lord, wisdom from the seat of Thy greatness, that she may be with me and may labour with me:
* That I may know what is acceptable before Thee at all times.
V. Give me, O Lord, wisdom that sitteth by Thy throne.
R. That I may know what is acceptable before Thee at all times.
&Gloria
R. That I may know what is acceptable before Thee at all times.

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of Saint Ambrose the Bishop on the hundred and eighteenth Psalm
!Sermon 5, nn. 36-37
That the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord, the prophet saith. But what is the beginning of wisdom, unless to renounce the world? Because to be wise in the things of the world is folly. Finally the Apostle saith that the wisdom of this world is folly with God. But even the fear of the Lord itself, unless it be according to knowledge, profiteth nothing, nay rather it harmeth greatly. For the Jews have a zeal of God; but because they have it not according to knowledge, in that very zeal and fear they contract a greater offence of the Godhead. That they circumcise their little ones, that they keep the sabbaths, they have the fear of God; but because they know not that the law is spiritual, they circumcise the body, not their heart.

[Responsory4]
R. Give me, O Lord, wisdom that sitteth by Thy throne, and reject me not from among Thy children:
* For I am Thy servant, and the son of Thy handmaid.
V. Send her forth from the seat of Thy greatness, that she may be with me and may labour with me.
R. For I am Thy servant, and the son of Thy handmaid.

[Lectio5]
And what do I say of the Jews? There are even among us who have the fear of God, but not according to knowledge, establishing harder precepts, which human condition cannot sustain. Fear is in this, because they seem to themselves to consult for discipline, to require the work of virtue; but ignorance is in this, because they do not sympathize with nature, they do not estimate possibility. Let not therefore fear be unreasonable. For true wisdom beginneth from the fear of God, nor is there spiritual wisdom without the fear of God; so fear ought not to be without wisdom.

[Responsory5]
R. The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord:
* A good understanding to all that do it: His praise remaineth for ever and ever.
V. The love of her is the keeping of her laws: for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
R. A good understanding to all that do it: His praise remaineth for ever and ever.

[Lectio6]
Holy fear is a certain basis of the word. For as some image is set upon a base, and then hath greater grace, when the statue hath been placed upon the base, and receiveth firmness of standing: so the word of God is better established in holy fear, more strongly rooted in the breast of him that feareth the Lord; lest the word slip from the heart of a man, lest the birds come and take it away from the affection of the careless and dissembling.

[Responsory6]
R. Remove far from me, O Lord, a wicked and deceitful word:
* Give me neither riches nor poverty, but only provide me with the things that are necessary for my sustenance.
V. Two things I have asked of Thee, deny them not to me before I die.
R. Give me neither riches nor poverty, but only provide me with the things that are necessary for my sustenance.
&Gloria
R. Give me neither riches nor poverty, but only provide me with the things that are necessary for my sustenance.

[Responsory7]
R. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to their counsel: exaltation of mine eyes give me not, and turn away from me an evil desire, O Lord; take from me concupiscence,
* And give me not over to an irreverent and senseless soul, O Lord.
V. Leave me not, O Lord, lest my ignorances increase, and my offences be multiplied.
R. And give me not over to an irreverent and senseless soul, O Lord.
