[Ant 1]
I dwell * in the highest places: and my throne is in a pillar of a cloud.

[Lectio1]
Here beginneth the book of Ecclesiastes
!Eccl 1:1-7
The words of Ecclesiastes, the son of David, king of Jerusalem. Vanity of vanities, said Ecclesiastes: vanity of vanities, and all is vanity. What hath a man more of all his labour, that he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth standeth for ever. The sun riseth, and goeth down, and returneth to his place: and there rising again, maketh his round by the south, and turneth again to the north: the spirit goeth forward surveying all places round about, and returneth to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea doth not overflow: unto the place from whence the rivers come, they return, to flow again.

[Lectio2]
!Eccl 1:8-11
All things are hard: man cannot explain them by word. The eye is not filled with seeing, neither is the ear filled with hearing. What is it that hath been? the same thing that shall be. What is it that hath been done? the same that shall be done. Nothing under the sun is new, neither can any one say: Behold this is new: for it hath already gone before in the ages that were before us. There is no remembrance of former things: nor indeed of those things which hereafter are to come, shall there be any remembrance with them that shall be in the latter end.

[Lectio3]
Eccl 1:12-17
I Ecclesiastes was king over Israel in Jerusalem, and I proposed in my mind to seek and search out wisely concerning all things that are done under the sun. This painful occupation hath God given to the children of men, to be exercised therein. I have seen all things that are done under the sun, and behold all is vanity, and vexation of spirit. The perverse are hard to be corrected, and the number of fools is infinite. I have spoken in my heart, saying: Behold I am become great, and have gone beyond all in wisdom, that were before me in Jerusalem: and my mind hath contemplated many things wisely, and I have learned. And I have given my heart to know prudence, and learning, and errors, and folly.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople.
!Sermon against those that keep concubines, at the end, tome 5
When Solomon was held fast by the desire for worldly things, he thought them great and admirable, and spent much labor and care upon them—building magnificent houses, amassing abundant gold, gathering choirs of singers and various kinds of attendants for table and tavern, seeking pleasure for his soul from the beauty of gardens and comely bodies, and pursuing, so to speak, every path of delight and refreshment.

[Lectio5]
But when he returned to himself from that state, and was able to look back, as if from some shadowy abyss, toward the light of true wisdom, he then uttered that sublime voice, worthy of heaven, saying: “Vanity of vanities, and all is vanity.” You too will pronounce this judgment—and one even more sublime than this, if you so desire—concerning this unseasonable pleasure, if for a little while you set yourselves apart from evil habit.

[Lectio6]
Although in former ages so great a diligence of wisdom was not required of Solomon—for the Old Law did not forbid luxuries, nor did it declare it vain to enjoy other superfluous things—nevertheless, even as matters then stood, one may behold in those very things how cheap and subject to vanity they are. We, however, who are called to a greater life, both ascend to a more exalted height and are exercised in greater arenas; and what else are we commanded to do, than to order our life just as those supernal powers, intellectual and incorporeal?
