[Ant 1]
All wisdom * is from the Lord God, and hath been always with Him, and is before all time.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
!Wis 1:1-4
Love justice, ye that are the judges of the earth. Think of the Lord in goodness, and seek Him in simplicity of heart: For He is found by them that tempt Him not: and He showeth Himself to them that have faith in Him. For perverse thoughts separate from God: and His power, when it is tried, reproveth the unwise: For wisdom will not enter into a malicious soul, nor dwell in a body subject to sins.

[Lectio2]
!Wis 1:5-8
For the Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from the deceitful, and will withdraw Himself from thoughts that are without understanding, and He shall not abide when iniquity cometh in. For the spirit of wisdom is benevolent, and will not acquit the evil speaker from his lips: for God is witness of his reins, and He is a true searcher of his heart, and a hearer of his tongue. For the Spirit of the Lord hath filled the whole world: and that which containeth all things, hath knowledge of the voice. Therefore he that speaketh unjust things cannot be hid, neither shall the chastising judgment pass him by.

[Lectio3]
!Wis 1:9-11
For inquisition shall be made into the thoughts of the ungodly: and the hearing of his words shall come to God, to the chastising of his iniquities. For the ear of jealousy heareth all things, and the tumult of murmuring shall not be hid. Keep yourselves therefore from murmuring, which profiteth nothing, and refrain your tongue from detraction, for an obscure speech shall not go for nought: and the mouth that belieth, killeth the soul.

[Lectio4]
From the book of the Offices of Saint Ambrose the Bishop
!Book 1, Chapters 28 and 29
Great is the splendor of justice, which, being born for others rather than for itself, aids our community and society, and holds an exalted place, so that it keeps all things subject to its judgment, brings help to others, bestows wealth, does not refuse duties, and takes upon itself the dangers of others. Who would not desire to hold this citadel of virtue, if our foremost avarice did not weaken and bend the vigor of so great a virtue? For while we desire to increase our wealth, to amass money, to occupy lands with our possessions, and to excel in riches, we strip off the form of justice and lose common beneficence.

[Lectio5]
But how great justice is can be understood from this, that it is excluded neither by places, nor by persons, nor by times, and is even reserved for enemies: so that if either a place or a day for battle has been agreed upon with the enemy, it would be considered contrary to justice to anticipate them either in place or in time. For it matters whether someone is captured in some battle and grave conflict, or by a superior favor, or by some other event. If, therefore, justice is valid in war, how much more must it be preserved in peace?

[Lectio6]
The foundation of justice, therefore, is faith. For the hearts of the just meditate on faith: and the just man who accuses himself places justice upon faith. For then his justice appears, if he confesses the truth. Finally, the Lord also says through Isaiah: “Behold, I lay a stone in the foundation of Sion”: that is, Christ in the foundation of the Church. For Christ is the faith of all: but the Church is a certain form of justice, the common right of all: she prays in common, she works in common, she is tempted in common. Finally, he who denies himself to himself, he is just, he is worthy of Christ. Therefore, Paul also laid Christ as the foundation, so that we might place the works of justice upon Him, because faith is the foundation.
