[Ant 1]
Wisdom * crieth aloud in the streets: If any man love wisdom, let him turn aside unto Me, and he shall find her: and when he hath found her, he shall be blessed if he hold her.

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
!Sir 1:1-5
All wisdom is from the Lord God, and hath been always with Him, and is before all time. Who hath numbered the sand of the sea, and the drops of rain, and the days of the world? Who hath measured the height of heaven, and the breadth of the earth, and the depth of the abyss? Who hath searched out the wisdom of God that goeth before all things? Wisdom hath been created before all things, and the understanding of prudence from everlasting. The word of God on high is the fountain of wisdom, and her ways are everlasting commandments.

[Lectio2]
!Sir 1:6-10
To whom hath the root of wisdom been revealed, and who hath known her wise counsels? To whom hath the discipline of wisdom been revealed and made manifest? and who hath understood the multiplicity of her ways? There is one most high Creator Almighty, and a powerful King, and greatly to be feared, who sitteth upon His throne, the God of dominion. He created her in the Holy Ghost, and saw her, and numbered her, and measured her. And He poured her out upon all His works, and upon all flesh according to His gift, and hath given her to them that love Him.

[Lectio3]
!Sir 1:11-16
The fear of the Lord is glory, and glorying, and gladness, and a crown of joy. The fear of the Lord shall delight the heart, and shall give joy, and gladness, and length of days. With him that feareth the Lord, it shall go well in the latter end, and in the day of his death he shall be blessed. The love of God is honourable wisdom: and they to whom she shall shew herself love her by the sight, and by the knowledge of her great works. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and was created with the faithful in the womb.

[Lectio4]
From the book of the Morals of Saint Gregory the Pope
!Book 1, chapter 10, on chapter 1 of Job
There are some who neglect their own life, and while they desire transitory things, while they either understand not eternal things or, understanding them, despise them, neither feel sorrow nor know how to take counsel; and since they consider not the heavenly things which they have lost, they think themselves (alas, the wretched!) to be happy in good things. For they by no means lift the eyes of the mind unto the light of truth for which they were created; by no means do they direct the keenness of desire unto the contemplation of the eternal fatherland; but, abandoning themselves in those things unto which they have been cast, they love the exile which they suffer in place of the fatherland, and in the blindness which they endure they exult as in the brightness of light.

[Lectio5]
But on the contrary, the minds of the elect, while they behold that all transitory things are nothing, seek out that for which they were created: and since nothing outside of God sufficeth for their satisfaction, their thought, wearied by the very exercise of inquiry, resteth in the hope and contemplation of their Creator; it desireth to be joined unto the citizens on high; and each one of them, though still placed in the world in body, yet in mind riseth outside the world: he bewaileth the hardship of the exile which he endureth, and by the continual goads of love stirreth himself unto the sublime fatherland. When therefore grieving he seeth how eternal is that which he hath lost, he findeth salutary counsel to despise this temporal thing which he is passing through: and the more the knowledge of counsel increaseth that he may abandon the things that shall perish, the more is the sorrow increased that he hath not yet attained unto the things that shall remain.

[Lectio6]
It is also to be observed that there is no sorrow of mind in the action of precipitation. For they who live without counsels, who abandon themselves headlong unto the events of things, are in the meantime wearied by no sorrow of thoughts. But he who skilfully fixeth his mind in the counsel of life, cautiously considereth himself by looking about in every action; and lest from the thing that is being done a sudden and adverse end should steal upon him, he first gently soundeth it with the foot of thought placed carefully: he weigheth lest fear should hinder from the things that ought to be done; lest precipitation should drive him into the things that ought to be deferred; lest evil things should overcome by open war through concupiscence; lest right things should be undermined by empty glory lying in wait.
