[Ant 1]
Observe, my son, * the precepts of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother, but bind it always in thy heart.

[Lectio1]
From the book of Ecclesiasticus  
!Sir 5:1-5
Set not thy heart upon unjust possessions, and say not: I have enough for my life: for it shall be of no service in the time of vengeance and darkness. Follow not in thy strength the desires of thy heart, and say not: How have I been able? or who shall subject me for my deeds? for God will take vengeance. Say not: I have sinned, and what harm hath befallen me? for the most High is a patient rewarder. Be not without fear about sin forgiven, and add not sin upon sin.

[Lectio2]
!Sir 5:6-11
And say not: The mercy of the Lord is great, He will have mercy on the multitude of my sins; for mercy and wrath quickly come from Him, and His wrath looketh upon sinners. Delay not to be converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day; for His wrath shall come on a sudden, and in the time of vengeance He will destroy thee. Be not anxious for unjust riches; for they shall not profit thee in the day of darkness and vengeance. Winnow not with every wind, and go not into every way: for so is every sinner proved by a double tongue.

[Lectio3]
!Sir 5:12-16
Be steadfast in the way of the Lord, and in the truth of thy judgment, and in knowledge; and let the word of peace and justice go with thee. Be meek to hear the word, that thou mayest understand, and with wisdom utter a true answer. If thou have understanding, answer thy neighbour; but if not, let thy hand be upon thy mouth, lest thou be surprised in an unskilful word, and be confounded. Honour and glory is in the word of the wise; but the tongue of the imprudent is his overthrow. Be not called a whisperer, and let not thy tongue take thee and confound thee.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint John Chrysostom
!Homily 22 on 2 Cor. 10, in the Moral part.  
Delay not to be converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day; for thou knowest not what the coming day may bring forth. For there is danger and fear in deferring; but sure and secure salvation, if there be no delay. Cultivate therefore virtue: for so, though thou die young, thou shalt depart securely: but if thou come to old age, thou shalt leave this life with much ease and no trouble; and thou shalt have a twofold festival, both that thou hast abstained from the malice of life, and that thou hast cultivated virtue. Say not: There will be a time when it will be lawful to be converted: for these words greatly provoke God.

[Lectio5]
Why then, when He Himself hath promised thee eternal ages, wilt thou not labour in the present life, which is small and momentary; but actest so sluggish and dissolute, as if thou soughtest another shorter than this? Do not those daily feasts, do not those tables, do not those harlots, do not those theatres, do not those riches testify an insatiable desire of malice? Consider well, that as often as thou hast committed fornication, so often thou hast condemned thyself; for sin is so disposed that as soon as it hath been committed, the judge passes sentence.

[Lectio6]
Hast thou been drunken? hast thou indulged the belly? hast thou robbed? stay thy step now: turn thyself the other way: give thanks to God, that He hath not taken thee away in the midst of sins: seek not another time to be prolonged for thee that thou mayest work evil. Many while living ill and viciously have suddenly perished and gone into manifest damnation: fear lest the same befall thee. But to many, thou sayest, God hath given space that they might confess in extreme old age. What then? shall it be given also to thee? Perhaps He will give, thou sayest. Why sayest thou, perhaps? Hath it happened sometimes? Consider that thou art deliberating concerning a soul: therefore consider also the contrary, and say: But what if He give not? But what if He give, thou sayest? Be it so, He Himself does give: yet this is more certain and more useful than that.
