[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Job
!Job 1:13-16
Now upon a certain day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their eldest brother, there came a messenger to Job, and said: The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them, and the Sabeans rushed in, and took all away, and slew the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, another came, and said: The fire of God fell from heaven, and striking the sheep and the servants, hath consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.  

[Responsory1]
R. My harp is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep.
* Spare me, O Lord, for my days are nothing.
V. My skin is become black upon me, and my bones are dried up.
R. Spare me, O Lord, for my days are nothing.

[Lectio2]
!Job 1:17-19
And while he also was yet speaking, there came another, and said: The Chaldeans made three bands, and have fallen upon the camels, and taken them, moreover they have slain the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. He was yet speaking, and behold another came in, and said: Thy sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their eldest brother, a violent wind came on a sudden from the side of the desert, and shook the four corners of the house, and it fell upon thy children and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.  

[Responsory2]
R. O that my sins, whereby I have merited wrath, were weighed,
* And the calamity, which I suffer, were weighed in a balance.
V. As the sand of the sea this would appear heavier, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
R. And the calamity, which I suffer, were weighed in a balance.

[Lectio3]
!Job 1:20-22
Then Job rose up, and rent his garments, and having shaven his head, fell down upon the ground, and worshipped, and said: Naked came I out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord, so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord. In all these things Job sinned not by his lips, nor spoke he any foolish thing against God.
