[Ant 1]
When Job had heard * the words of the messengers, he endured patiently, and said: If we have received good things from the hand of the Lord, why should we not endure evil things?. In all these things Job sinned not with his lips, neither did he speak any foolish thing against God.

[Lectio1]
The Book of Job begins
!Job 1:1-3
There was a man in the land of Hus, whose name was Job, and that man was simple and upright, and fearing God, and avoiding evil. And there were born to him seven sons and three daughters. And his possession was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she-asses, and a family exceeding great: and this man was great among all the people of the East.

[Responsory1]
R. If we have received good things from the hand of God, why should we not endure evil things?
* The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord, so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord.
V. Naked came I out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return thither.
R. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord, so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord.

[Lectio2]
!Job 1:4-5
And his sons went and made a feast by houses, every one in his day. And sending they called their three sisters to eat and drink with them. And when the days of their feasting were gone about, Job sent to them, and sanctified them: and rising up early, offered holocausts for every one of them. For he said: Lest perhaps my sons have sinned, and have blessed God in their hearts. So did Job all days.

[Responsory2]
R. Before I eat, I sigh: and as overflowing waters, so is my roaring: for the fear which I feared hath come upon me: and that which I was afraid of hath befallen me. Have I not dissembled? have I not kept silence? have I not been quiet?
* And indignation is come upon me.  
V. Behold there is no help for me in myself, and my familiar friends also are departed from me.
R. And indignation is come upon me.  

[Lectio3]
!Job 1:6-11
Now on a certain day when the sons of God came to stand before the Lord, Satan also was present among them. And the Lord said to him: Whence comest thou? And he answered and said: I have gone round about the earth, and walked through it. And the Lord said to him: Hast thou considered My servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a simple and upright man, and fearing God, and avoiding evil? And Satan answering, said: Doth Job fear God in vain? Hast Thou not made a fence for him, and his house, and all his substance round about, blessed the works of his hands, and his possession hath increased on the earth? But stretch forth Thy hand a little, and touch all that he hath, and see if he bless Thee not to Thy face.

[Responsory3]
R. Why have you detracted the words of truth? you frame speeches to reprove, and you strive to overthrow your friend:
* Yet complete that which you have thought.
V. Judge that which is just, and you shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
R. Yet complete that which you have thought.
&Gloria
R. Yet complete that which you have thought.

[Lectio4]
From the book of the Morals of Saint Gregory the Pope
!Lesson iv, Book 2, Chapter 1
Holy Scripture is set before the eyes of the mind as a kind of mirror, that our inward face may be seen in it. For there we know our foul things, there our fair things: there we perceive how much we advance, there how far we are distant from advancement. Moreover it relates the deeds of the Saints, and provokes the hearts of the weak to imitation; and while it commemorates their victorious deeds, it strengthens our weak things against the battles of vices: and it comes to pass by its words that the mind trembles the less in the midst of struggles, the more it sees set before it the triumphs of so many strong men.

[Responsory4]
R. My flesh is clothed with rottenness and the filth of dust, my skin is withered and drawn together:
* Remember me, O Lord, for my life is but wind.
V. My days have passed more swiftly than the web is cut by the weaver, and are consumed without any hope.
R. Remember me, O Lord, for my life is but wind.

[Lectio5]
But sometimes it not only asserts their virtues to us, but also makes known their falls; that both in the victory of the strong we may see what we ought to seize by imitating, and again in the falls what we ought to fear. For behold Job is described as increased by temptation, but David as overthrown by temptation; that both the virtue of the greater may foster our hope, and the fall of the greater may gird us for the caution of humility: so that while those lift us up rejoicing, these press us down fearing; and the mind of the hearer, instructed thence by the confidence of hope, thence by the humility of fear, neither grows proud by rashness, because it is pressed by dread; nor, being pressed by fear, despairs, because it is strengthened to the confidence of hope by the example of virtue.

[Responsory5]
R. The fewness of my days shall be ended shortly: suffer me, O Lord, that I may lament my sorrow a little,
* Before I go to the land that is dark and covered with the mist of death.
V. Thy hands, O Lord, have made me, and fashioned me wholly round about; and dost Thou thus suddenly cast me down?
R. Before I go to the land that is dark and covered with the mist of death.

[Lectio6]
!Book 1 of the Morals, chapter 1
There was a man in the land of Hus, whose name was Job. Therefore it is said where the holy man dwelt, that the merit of his virtue may be expressed. For who knows not that Hus is in the land of the Gentiles? But the Gentiles stood bound to vices in so far as they were ignorant of the knowledge of their Creator. Let it therefore be said where he dwelt; that this may profit his praises, that he was good among the evil. For it is not greatly praiseworthy to be good with the good, but to be good with the evil. For as it is of heavier fault not to be good among the good; so it is of immense commendation to have been good even among the evil.

[Responsory6]
R. Hide me not, O Lord, from Thy face: put Thy hand far from me,
* And let not Thy dread terrify me.
V. Correct me, O Lord, in mercy, not in Thy fury, lest Thou bring me to nothing.
R. And let not Thy dread terrify me.
&Gloria
R. And let not Thy dread terrify me.

[Responsory7]
R. Who will grant me that Thou mayest protect me in hell, and hide me till Thy wrath pass, O Lord, except Thou, who alone art God?
* And that Thou appoint me a time in which Thou wilt remember me?
V. Are Thy days as the days of man, that Thou shouldst seek after my iniquity; when there is none that can deliver out of Thy hand.
R. And that Thou appoint me a time in which Thou wilt remember me?
