[Officium]
Die V infra octavam Paschae

[Oratio]
O God, who hast united the diversity of nations in the confession of thy name: grant that for those reborn from the font of baptism there may be one faith of minds and piety of actions.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio1]
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 20:11-18
At that time: But Mary stood at the sepulchre without, weeping. Now as she was weeping, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre. And so forth.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!25th on the Gospels
Mary Magdalene, who had been a sinner in the city, by loving the Truth washed away the stains of her crime with tears. And the voice of Truth is fulfilled which says: “Her many sins are forgiven her, because she has loved much.” (Luke vii. 47.) For she who had remained cold by sinning afterward burned strongly by loving. For after she came to the tomb and did not find the Lord’s body there, she believed it had been taken away and announced it to the disciples. They came, saw, and believed that it was so, as the woman had said. And of them it is written immediately: “The disciples therefore went away to their own homes.” And then it is added: “But Mary stood at the tomb outside, weeping.”

[Responsory1]
R. They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid Him. The Angels say unto her: Woman, why weepest thou? He is risen, as He said.
* He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the Sepulchre, and saw two Angels in white, sitting; and they say unto her:
R. He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio2]
In this matter it is to be considered how great a force of love had inflamed this woman’s mind, that even when the disciples withdrew from the Lord’s tomb, she did not withdraw. She sought Him whom she had not found; she wept while inquiring, and inflamed by the fire of her love, she burned with desire for Him whom she believed had been taken away. Whence it came to pass that she alone then saw Him, who had lingered to seek Him; for the virtue of a good work is perseverance. And the voice of Truth says: “But he who perseveres to the end, he shall be saved.” (Matth. x. 22; xxiv. 13.)

[Responsory2]
R. Rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord: for I sought Him and He hath appeared unto me;
* And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
V. When His disciples were gone away, I tarried still; and the fire of love in mine heart glowed for Him.
R. And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
Mary therefore, when she wept, inclined herself and looked into the Sepulchre. Certainly she had already seen the Sepulchre empty, already had announced the Lord taken away: what is this, that she again inclineth herself, again desireth to see? But to one that loveth, once to have beheld sufficeth not: because the force of love multiplieth the intention of the inquiry. She sought therefore first, and found not at all: she persevered to seek, whence also it came to pass that she found: and it was wrought that the desires deferred might grow, and growing might grasp that which they had found.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Mary stood without at the Sepulchre weeping, * and saw two Angels in white, sitting, and the napkin that had been about the Head of Jesus, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
They have taken away my Lord, * and I know not where they have laid Him: if thou have borne Him hence, tell me, alleluia, and I will take Him away, alleluia.
