[Officium]
Seventeenth Sunday after Pentecost  

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord, to Thy people to avoid diabolical contagions: and with a pure mind to follow Thee the only God.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew  
!Matt 22:34-46
At that time: The Pharisees came to Jesus, and one of them, a doctor of the law, asked Him, tempting Him: Master, which is the great commandment in the law? And the rest.  
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom  
!Homily 72 on Matthew
The Sadducees being confounded, the Pharisees again attack; and when they ought to have been quiet, they wished to contend: and they put forward one professing skill in the law, desiring not to learn but to tempt; and so they ask: Which is the first commandment in the law. For since that first one is, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God: thinking that He would furnish them with causes [against Him] for [his] correcting of this commandment, by [Him] adding something to it, since He made Himself God, they interrogate [Him] in this manner. What then does Christ do? That He may show that they had come to these matters for this reason: because there was no [grace of] charity in them, but they were wasting away with the blight of envy: Thou shalt love, He saith, the Lord thy God: this is the first and great commandment. And the second is like to this: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

[Lectio8]
For what reason is it like to this? Because this leadeth to that, and is in turn fortified by that. For whosoever doeth evil, hateth the light, and cometh not to the light. And again: The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Then it follows: They are corrupt, and are become abominable in their pursuits. And again: The root of all evils is covetousness; which some coveting have erred from the faith. And, He that loveth Me, shall keep My commandments: the head and root of which is: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, and thy neighbor as thyself.

[Lectio9]
If therefore to love God is to also love the neighbour: (for if thou lovest Me, O Peter, He saith, feed My sheep) if also the love of neighbor causeth that thou keep the commandments: worthily He saith that on these hang all the law and the prophets. And just as in the preceding matters, when He was asked about the resurrection, He taught more than they who tempted Him were asking; so in this place, being asked concerning the first commandment, He of His own accord brought forward the second also, not much inferior to the first; for the second is like unto the first. Thus He secretly insinuated, that they were incited to question by hatred. For charity, He saith, envieth not.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Master, * which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus saith to him: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, alleluia.  

[Ant 3]
What think you * of Christ? whose son is He? They say to Him all: David’s. Jesus saith to them: How then doth David in spirit call Him Lord, saying: The Lord said to my Lord: Sit on My right hand?
