[Officium]
Twelfth Sunday after Pentecost

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, of whose gift it cometh that Thy faithful people do Thee worthy and laudable service: grant, we beseech Thee, unto us; that we may run without offence unto Thy promises.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:23-37
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Blessed are the eyes that see the things which ye see. For I say to you that many prophets and kings have desired to see the things that ye see, and have not seen them. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Bede the Venerable, Priest
!Book 3, chapter 43 on Luke 10
Not the eyes of the scribes and Pharisees, who saw only the body of the Lord; but those eyes are blessed which are able to know His mysteries, of which it is said: And Thou hast revealed them unto little ones. Blessed are the eyes of the little ones, unto whom the Son deigneth to reveal both Himself and the Father. Abraham rejoiced that he might see the day of Christ; and he saw it, and was glad. Isaias also, and Micheas, and many other prophets saw the glory of the Lord, who for that reason are called Seers; but all these, looking from afar and saluting, saw through a glass and in a dark manner. (1 Cor. xiii. 12.)

[Lectio8]
But the Apostles, having the Lord in their presence, and eating with Him, and learning by asking whatsoever they would, had no need at all to be taught by Angels or by various kinds of visions. But those whom Luke calleth many prophets and kings, Matthew more openly calleth prophets and just men. For they themselves are great kings; because they knew not to yield by consenting to the motions of their temptations, but to rule by governing them.

[Lectio9]
And behold a certain lawyer stood up, tempting Him, and saying: "Master, what shall I do to possess eternal life?" The lawyer, who, tempting the Lord, asketh concerning eternal life, took, as I think, the occasion of tempting from those very words of the Lord, where He saith: "But rejoice that your names are written in heaven." But by his own temptation he declareth how true is that confession of the Lord, wherein He speaketh unto the Father: "That Thou hast hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto little ones."
&teDeum

[Ant 2_]
Master, * what shall I do to possess eternal life? But He said unto him: What is written in the law? how readest thou? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, alleluia.

[Ant 3_]
A certain man * went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among robbers, who also stripped him, and having wounded him, went away, leaving him half dead.
