[Officium]
Fifteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Oratio]
May Thy continued mercy cleanse and defend Thy Church, O Lord: and because without Thee she cannot remain safe; may she ever be governed by Thy gift.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
Reading of the holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 7:11-16
At that time: Jesus went into a city that is called Naim: and there went with Him His disciples, and a great multitude. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!Sermon 44 on the words of the Lord, near the beginning
Concerning that young man raised to life, the widowed mother rejoiced; concerning men daily raised to life in the spirit, Mother Church rejoices. He indeed was dead in body; but they in mind. His visible death was visibly mourned; their invisible death was neither inquired into, nor seen. He sought them out, who knew the dead. He alone knew the dead, who was able to make them alive. For unless He had come to raise the dead, the Apostle would not say: “Arise, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee.” (Eph. v. 14.)

[Lectio8]
But we find three dead raised by the Lord visibly, thousands invisibly. But how many dead He raised visibly, who knoweth? For not all things that He did are written. John said this: “Many other things did Jesus, which if they were written, I think the world itself could not contain the books.” Many others therefore without doubt were raised, but it is not meaningless that three are recorded. For our Lord Jesus Christ willed that those things which He did bodily, should also be understood spiritually. For He did not work miracles merely for the sake of miracles; but so that those things which He did might be wondrous to those seeing, and true to those understanding.

[Lectio9]
Just as he who sees letters in an excellently written manuscript, and knows not how to read, praises indeed the antiquary's hand [scribe], admiring the beauty of the strokes; but what they mean, what those strokes indicate, he knows not, and is a praiser with his eyes, but not a knower in his mind. But another both praises the craftsmanship, and grasps the understanding: he, certainly, who is able not only to see, which is common to all, but also to read; which he who has not learned [to read], cannot even do. Thus those who saw the miracles of Christ, and understood not what they meant, and what in a certain manner they intimated to those understanding, marveled only that they were done; but others both marveled at the deeds, and attained the understanding. Such ought we to be in the school of Christ.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Jesus went * into a city that is called Naim: and behold a dead man was carried out, the only son of his mother.

[Ant 3]
A great Prophet * hath risen up among us, and God hath visited His people.
