[Officium]
Sixteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Oratio]
Let Thy grace, we beseech Thee, O Lord, always both prevent and follow us: and make us to be continually intent upon good works.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 14:1-11
At that time: When Jesus went into the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees on the sabbath day to eat bread, they watched Him. And behold, there was a certain man before Him that had the dropsy. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Ambrose, Bishop.
!Book 7 on Luke, chapter 14.
Now is healed this man sick of the dropsy, in whom too much watery matter had well-nigh drowned the functions of the soul, and quenched the fire of understanding [intellect]. Then humility is taught, when at that nuptial banquet the appetite for a higher place is restrained; clemently, however, that the persuasion of kindness might exclude the harshness of constraint, reason might profit unto the effect of persuasion, and correction might emend the affection. To this, as if on the next threshold, kindness is joined: which is so distinguished by the definition of the Lord's sentence, if it be bestowed upon the poor and the weak: for to be hospitable to those about to remunerate us is an affection of avarice.

[Lectio8]
Lastly, the stipend of despising resources is prescribed to the man as if of a completed military service: that neither he, who intent upon lower studies hath bought for himself earthly possessions, can obtain the kingdom of heaven, since the Lord says: Sell all thy things, and follow me: nor he, who hath bought oxen, since Elisha killed, and divided to the people those which he had: and he who has taken a wife thinks of the things that are of the world, not those that are of God. Not that marriage is reprehended, but because integrity is called to a greater honor: since the unmarried woman and the widow think on the things that are of the Lord, that she may be holy in body and in spirit.

[Lectio9]
But that we may return into grace, as above with the widows, so now also with the married: we do not flee the opinion which very many follow, that we should esteem three classes of men to be excluded from the fellowship of that great supper: Gentiles, Jews, Heretics. And therefore the Apostle saith that avarice is to be fled; lest, hindered after the manner of the Gentiles by iniquity, malice, impurity, avarice, we be unable to arrive at the kingdom of Christ. For every unclean or covetous person, which is a serving of idols, hath not inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
When Jesus went * into the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees on the sabbath day to eat bread, behold, there was a certain man before Him that had the dropsy: but He taking him, healed him, and sent him away.

[Ant 3]
When thou art invited * to a wedding, sit down in the lowest place, that he who invited thee may say to thee: Friend, go up higher. And thou shalt have glory before them that sit at table with thee, alleluia.
