[Officium]
Fourteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Oratio]
Keep, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy Church with perpetual propitiation: and because without Thee human mortality slideth, by Thy helps let it always both be drawn away from things hurtful and be directed unto things salutary.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 6:24-33
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: No man can serve two masters. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!Book 2 on the Sermon of the Lord on the Mount, chapter 14
​“No one can serve two masters.” To this very intention must be referred what he subsequently expounds, saying: “For either he will hate the one, and love the other; or he will endure the one, and despise the other.” Which words are to be diligently considered: for he next shows who the two masters are, when he says: “You cannot serve God and mammon.” Among the Hebrews, riches are said to be called mammon. The Punic name also agrees; for in Punic, gain is called mammon.

[Lectio8]
But he who serves mammon certainly serves him who, set over these earthly things by the merit of his own perversity, is called by the Lord the magistrate of this world. For either a man will hate the one, and love the other, that is, God; or he will endure the one, and despise the other. For whoever serves mammon will endure a hard and pernicious master; for, entangled by his own greed, he is subjected to the devil [as a slave], and does not love him. For who is there who loves the devil? Yet nevertheless he endures him.

[Lectio9]
Therefore,” he says, “I say to you, be not solicitous for your soul what you shall eat, nor for your body what you shall put on”; lest perhaps, although superfluous things are no longer sought, the heart should become divided on account of these very necessities, and our intention be twisted toward acquiring them, when we do something as if acting mercifully: that is, so that when we wish to seem to be providing for someone, we look to our own profit therein rather than to his advantage; and thereby we do not seem to ourselves to sin, because the things we wish to obtain are not superfluous, but necessary.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Be not solicitous * saying: What shall we eat, or what shall we drink? for your Father knoweth what is necessary for you, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Seek ye first * the kingdom of God and His justice, and all these things shall be added unto you, alleluia.
