[Officium]
St. Dominic the Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who didst vouchsafe to enlighten Thy Church by the merits and teachings of blessed Dominic Thy Confessor: grant that by his intercession she may not be deprived of temporal helps, and may ever advance in spiritual increase.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
!2 Tim. 4:1-8
Dearly beloved: I charge thee, before God and Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead, by His coming and His kingdom: preach the word, be instant in season, out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke in all patience and doctrine. For there shall be a time when they will not endure sound doctrine, but according to their own desires they will heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears, and will indeed turn away their hearing from the truth, but will be turned unto fables. But be thou vigilant, labour in all things, do the work of an evangelist, fulfil thy ministry. Be sober. For I am even now ready to be sacrificed, and the time of my dissolution is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. As to the rest, there is laid up for me a crown of justice, which the Lord the just Judge will render to me in that day: and not only to me, but to them also that love His coming.

[Graduale]
!Ps 91:13-14
The just shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow up like the cedar of Libanus in the house of the Lord.
!Ps 91:3
V. To show forth Thy mercy in the morning, and Thy truth in the night. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Osee 14:6
V. The just shall spring as the lily: and shall flourish for ever before the Lord. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 12:35-40
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples, Let your loins be girt about and your lamps burning, and you yourselves like men waiting for their master's return from the wedding; so that when he comes and knocks, they may straightway open to him. Blessed are those servants whom the master, on his return, shall find watching. Amen I say to you, he will gird himself, and will make them recline at table, and will come and serve them. And if he comes in the second watch, and if in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those servants! But of this be assured, that if the householder had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would certainly have watched, and not have let his house be broken into. You also must be ready, because at an hour that you do not expect, the Son of Man is coming.

[Secreta]
Sanctify, O Lord, the gifts dedicated unto Thee: that by the merits of blessed Dominic Thy Confessor they may profit us unto healing.
$Per Dominum

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God: that we who are weighed down by the burden of our sins may be raised up by the patronage of blessed Dominic Thy Confessor.
$Per Dominum
