[Rank]
Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis cum Octava simplici;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rule]
ex C11;
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Maria=Nativitate

[Oratio]
Bestow upon Thy servants, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the gift of heavenly grace: that to those for whom the childbirth of the blessed Virgin was the beginning of salvation, the votive solemnity of her Nativity may grant an increase of peace.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
!Prov 8:22-35
The Lord possessed me in the beginning of His ways, before He made any thing from the beginning. I was set up from eternity, and of old before the earth was made. The depths were not as yet, and I was already conceived, neither had the fountains of waters as yet sprung out: the mountains with their huge bulk had not as yet been established: before the hills I was brought forth: He had not yet made the earth, nor the rivers, nor the poles of the world. When He prepared the heavens, I was present: when with a certain law and compass He enclosed the depths: when He established the sky above, and poised the fountains of waters: when He compassed the sea with its bounds, and set a law to the waters that they should not pass their limits: when He balanced the foundations of the earth. I was with Him forming all things: and was delighted every day, playing before Him at all times; playing in the world: and my delights were to be with the children of men. Now therefore, ye children, hear me: Blessed are they that keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors. He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord.

[Graduale]
Blessed and venerable are you, O Virgin Mary, who, without spot to your maidenhood, were made the Mother of the Saviour.
V. O Virgin, Mother of God, He Whom the whole world cannot contain, enclosed Himself in your womb, becoming Man. Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Happy are you, O Holy Virgin Mary, and most worthy of all high praise; for out of you has risen the sun of justice, Christ our God. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-16
The book of the origins of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, Jacob begot Judas and his brethren. Judas begot Phares and Zara of Thamar, Phares begot Esron, Esron begot Aram. And Aram begot Aminadab, Aminadab begot Naasson, Naasson begot Salmon. Salmon begot Booz of Rahab. Booz begot Obed of Ruth, Obed begot Jesse, Jesse begot David the king. And David the king begot Solomon of the former wife of Urias. Solomon begot Roboam, Roboam begot Abia, Abia begot Asa. And Asa begot Josaphat, Josaphat begot Joram, Joram begot Ozias. And Ozias begot Joatham, Joatham begot Achaz, Achaz begot Ezechias. And Ezechias begot Manasses, Manasses begot Amon, Amon begot Josias. And Josias begot Jechonias and his brethren at the time of the carrying away to Babylon. And after the carrying away to Babylon Jechonias begot Salathiel, Salathiel begot Zorobabel. And Zorobabel begot Abiud, Abiud begot Eliachim, Eliachim begot Azor. And Azor begot Sadoc, Sadoc begot Achim, Achim, begot Eliud. And Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar begot Matthan, Matthan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, and of her was born Jesus Who is called Christ.

[Secreta]
May the humanity of Thine only-begotten Son succour us, O Lord: that He who, being born of a Virgin, diminished not, but consecrated, the integrity of His Mother; on the solemnity of her Nativity, stripping us of our sins, may make our offering acceptable unto Thee, Jesus Christ our Lord.
$Qui vivis
