[Officium]
St. Justini Martyr

[Oratio]
O God, Who through the preaching of the Cross, which is to them that perish foolishness, didst wonderfully teach unto thy blessed martyr Justin the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus Our Lord, grant unto us at his prayers the grace to cast off all false teaching and ever to hold fast to the faith.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio4]
Justin, son of Priscus, born of Greek stock in Flavia Neapolis in Syria Palestina, passed his youth in the study of all literature. When he was made a man, he was so seized with the love of philosophy that, to attain the truth, he gave his name to as many sects of philosophers as then were present, and searched out their precepts. When in these he found only fallacious wisdom and error, being enlightened by a heavenly illumination and taught by a certain unknown old man of venerable countenance, he embraced the philosophy of the true Christian faith. Hence, having the books of Holy Scripture continually in his hands both day and night, by meditation upon them such a divine fire blazed up in his soul that, by the power of his learning which he possessed, he acquired an eminent knowledge of Jesus Christ, and wrote many volumes for the exposition and further propagation of the Christian faith.

[Lectio5]
Among the most illustrious works of Justin two Apologies for the Christian faith stand eminent, which, when he had presented them before the Senate to the emperors Antoninus Pius and his sons, as also to Marcus Antoninus Verus and Lucius Aurelius Commodus, who were most cruelly vexing the followers of Christ, and had strenuously defended the same faith by disputation, he obtained that by a public edict of the princes the slaughter of the Christians should be moderated. But to Justin no mercy was shown. For, accused by the snares of the Cynic Crescentius, whose wicked life and morals he had reproved, he was seized by the henchmen. Being brought before the prefect of Rome named Rusticus, when this one had inquired of him what were the precepts of the Christians, he made this good confession before many witnesses: “The right dogma which we Christians men piously observe is this: that we esteem one God as the Maker and Creator of all things visible and of those things which are not seen by bodily eyes; and that we confess the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was foretold by the prophets of old and who will come as Judge of the human race.”

[Lectio6]
Since Justin had in his first Apology set forth how Christians were accustomed to assemble for the celebration of the Sacred Mysteries, and what the mysteries of this holy gathering were, in order to repel the calumnies of the heathens; the prefect inquired of him in what place he himself and the rest of the Christian Faithful of this City were accustomed to meet. Justin, however, keeping silent about the places of assembly so as not to betray the holy things and his brethren to dogs, indicated only his own dwelling, where he was accustomed to stay and to instruct his disciples, near the famous Church of the Shepherd, in the house of Pudens. At length the prefect gave him the choice either to sacrifice to the gods or to suffer his whole body to be beaten with scourges. When the unconquered champion of the faith asserted that he had always desired to endure torments for the sake of the Lord Jesus Christ, from whom he expected to obtain a great reward in heaven, the prefect pronounced a capital sentence against him. And so the admirable philosopher, praising God, after being scourged, poured out his blood for Christ and was crowned with glorious martyrdom. Certain certain of the faithful secretly took up his body and laid it in a fitting place. Leo the Thirteenth, Supreme Pontiff, commanded that his Office and Mass be celebrated by the universal Church.

[Lectio94]
Justin, son of Priscus and of Greek extraction, was born at Nablus in Palestine. He was so possessed by love for philosophy that, in his search for truth, he enrolled in every philosophical school he could find. But in these he found nothing but fallacious wisdom, and, taught by enlightenment sent him from heaven, he embraced the philosophy of the Christian faith. Thereafter he studied the books of holy Scripture day and night and, when he had thus become learned in the supreme knowledge of Jesus Christ, he wrote many books to explain and to spread the Christian faith, among which his two Apologies are particularly well known. When he had presented these to the emperors Antoninus Pius and his sons, and fought strenuously for the faith by disputations as well, he obtained a public edict from the princes to restrain the slaughter of Christians. But he himself was accused through the plotting of Crescens the Cynic, whose wicked ways he had criticized. He was taken prisoner by Crescens' followers and brought before Rusticus the prefect. When he firmly held to his confession of the faith, he was condemned to death, and went to his rest crowned with the glory of martyrdom.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 12:2-8
In the meantime, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, in so much that they trod one upon another, Jesus began to say unto His disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy, for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid, that shall not be known. And so on.
_
Homily by St. John Chrysostom, (Patriarch of Constantinople)
!On Matthew x. 26.)
"Nothing is covered that shall not be revealed, neither hidden that shall not be known." What he says is of this kind: It is enough for your consolation that I, your Master and Lord, share in these reproaches with you. But if you still grieve at hearing these things, consider this also: you will soon be freed from this suspicion. Why do you take it so hard? Because they call you impostors and deceivers? Wait a little while, and all men will proclaim you as the saviors and benefactors of the world. For time will reveal all that is now obscure, will expose their calumnies, and will make your virtue conspicuous. When you are proved by events themselves to be saviors and benefactors, and outstanding in every virtue, men will pay no heed to their words but to the truth of the facts; and those sycophants, liars, and revilers will be seen for what they are, while you will be found brighter than the sun itself. A long span of time will make you known, will proclaim you, and will send forth a voice clearer than a trumpet, presenting all men as witnesses to your virtue. Do not, therefore, be cast down by what is now said, but let the hope of future good things raise you up. For the things that concern you cannot remain hidden.

[Lectio8]
Then, after he had freed them from all anxiety, fear, and solicitude, and made them superior to every insult, he speaks to them opportunely about the freedom of preaching. For he says: “What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear in the ear, preach upon the housetops.” Although there was no darkness when he said this, nor was he speaking into the ear, these words are spoken hyperbolically. Because he was addressing them alone, and in a small corner of Palestine, he says “in the darkness” and “in the ear,” comparing this manner of speaking with the boldness of speech with which he would afterward equip them. Preach not in one, or two, or three cities, but throughout the whole world, traversing the land and sea, inhabited, and uninhabited; and speak all things with great confidence to tyrants, peoples, philosophers, and orators. Therefore He said “upon the housetops” and “in the light”; without any subterfuge, and with all liberty.
