[Rank]
Fifth Day within the Octave of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide sancti/08-15

[Lectio1]
!Song 5:8-12
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him that I languish with love. (Chorus) What manner of one is thy beloved of the beloved, O thou most beautiful among women? what manner of one is thy beloved of the beloved, that thou hast so adjured us? (The Bride) My beloved is white and ruddy, chosen out of thousands. His head is as the finest gold: his locks as branches of palm trees, black as a raven. His eyes as doves upon brooks of waters, which are washed with milk, and sit beside the plentiful streams.

[Lectio2]
!Song 6:1-5
(The Bride) My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the bed of aromatical spices, to feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies. I to my beloved, and my beloved to me, who feedeth among the lilies. (The Bridegroom) Thou art beautiful, O my love, sweet and comely as Jerusalem: terrible as an army set in array. Turn away thine eyes from me, for they have made me flee away. Thy hair is as a flock of goats, that appear from Galaad. Thy teeth as a flock of sheep, which come up from the washing, all with twins, and there is none barren among them.

[Lectio3]
!Song 6:8-12
One is my dove, my perfect one is but one, she is the only one of her mother, the chosen of her that bore her. The daughters saw her, and declared her most blessed: the queens and concubines, and they praised her. Who is she that cometh forth as the morning rising, fair as the moon, bright as the sun, terrible as an army set in array? (The Bride) I went down into the garden of nuts, to see the fruits of the valleys, and to look if the vineyard had flourished, and the pomegranates budded. I knew not: my soul troubled me for the chariots of Aminadab. (Chorus) Return, return, O Sulamitess: return, return, that we may behold thee.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Bernard the Abbot (of Clairvaux.)
!Serm. 1 on the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Therefore this day the glorious one ascending into the heavens hath without doubt heaped up with abundant increases the joys of the citizens above. For this is she whose voice of salutation maketh even those to exult in joy whom are still shut up in their mothers' bellies. (Luke i. 41, 44.) ut if the soul of the little one not yet born was melted when Mary spoke, what think we was that exultation of the heavenly ones who merited both to hear her voice, and to see her face, and to enjoy her blessed presence?

[Lectio4] (rubrica 1570)
De Sermone sancti Joannis Damasceni.
!Orat. 2. de Dormitione Deiparae, sub finem.
Ex antiqua accepimus traditione, quod tempore gloriosae dormitionis beatae Virginis, universi quidem sancti Apostoli, qui orbem terrae ad salutem Gentium peragrabant, momento tomporis in sublime elati, convenerunt Jerosolymis: cumque illic essent, eis visio apparuit angelica, et audita est psalmodia coelestium Potestatum; et sic cum divina gloria in manus Dei sanctam tradidit animam. Ejus autem corpus, quod Deum ineffabili quadam ratione suscepit, cura angelica et apostolica hymnodia elatum, in loculo fuit depositum Gethsemane: quo in loco Angelorum cantus mansit tres dies continuos.

[Lectio5]
But who is sufficient to think also of that, how gloriously this day the Queen of the world went forth: and with how great an affection of devotion the whole multitude of the heavenly legions came forth to meet her: with what canticles she was led unto the throne of glory: with what a look of peace, with how serene a face, with what divine embraces she was received by the Son, and exalted above every creature, with that honour whereof so great a Mother was worthy; with that glory which so greatly became the Son?

[Lectio5] (rubrica 1570)
Post tres autem dies angelico cantu cessante, qui aderant Apostoli cum unus Thomas, qui abfuerat, post tertiura diera venisset, et quod Deum susceperat, corpus adorare voluisset, tumulum aperuerunt; sed orani ex parte sacrum ejus corpus nequáquam invenire potuerunt. Cum ea autem tantum invenissent, in quibus fuerat compositura, et ineffabili, qui ex iis proficiscebatur, essent odore repleti, loculum clauserunt. Ejus mysterii obstupefacti miraculo hoc solum cogitare potuerunt, quod cui placuit ex Maria Virgine carnem suniere, et hominera fieri et nasci, cura esset Deus Verbum, et Dominus gloriae: quique post partura incoruptam servavit ejus virginitatem, eidem etiam placuit et ipsius, postquara migravit, iramaculatum corpus, incorruptum servatum, translatione honorare ante communem et universalem resurrectionem.

[Lectio6]
Happy altogether were the kisses impressed upon the lips of the suckling, upon whom the mother applauded in her virginal bosom. But shall we not judge happier those which this day in the blessed salutation she received from the mouth of Him that sitteth at the right hand of the Father, when she ascended unto the throne of glory, singing the nuptial song, and saying: Let Him kiss me with the kiss of His mouth? (Cant. i. 2.) Who shall declare the generation of Christ and the assumption of Mary? For as much grace as she obtained upon earth above the rest, so much singular glory doth she obtain also in the heavens.

[Lectio6] (rubrica 1570)
Aderant tunc cum Apostolis sanctissimus Timotheus, primus episcopus Ephesiorum, et Dionysius Areopagita, sicut ipse testatur in iis, quae de beato Hierotheo, qui ipse quoque tunc aderat, scripsit ad praedictum Timotheum, sic dicens: Nam etiam apud ipsos a Deo afflatos sacrorum antistites, quando nos quoque, ut nosti, et multi ex sanctis nostris fratribus, ad contuendum corpus, quod vitae principium dedit, et Deum suscepit, convenissemus (aderat autem et Domini frater Jacobus, et Petrus, suprema et antiquissima theologdrum summitas): et viso sacro corpore, placuit omnibus, prout quisque poterat, hymnis celebrare infinitam bonitatem divinae potentiae.

[Lectio7]
Reading of the holy Gospel according to Luke.
!Luke 10:38-42
At that time: Jesus entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her house. And the rest.
_
From the Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop. (of Hippo.)
!From Serm. 27 on the Words of the Lord.
The labour of the multitude passeth away, and the charity of unity remaineth. Therefore that which Mary hath chosen shall not be taken away from her: but from thee, Martha, that which thou hast chosen; this assuredly followeth, this is assuredly understood; from thee, that which thou hast chosen, shall be taken away: but it shall be taken away for thy good, that that which is better may be given. For labour shall be taken away from thee, that rest may be given. Thou art sailing, she is already in the harbour.

[Lectio8]
Ye see therefore, most dearly beloved, and as I suppose ye already understand in these two women, who were both pleasing unto the Lord, both lovable, both disciples: ye see therefore, and ye understand something great, whosoever understand, which even they who do not understand ought to hear and to know, that in these two women two lives are figured, the present and the future, the laborious and the quiet, the full of troubles and the blessed, the temporal and the eternal.

[Lectio9]
There are two lives: think more abundantly of them. What this life hath, I say not the evil, not the iniquitous, not the nefarious, not the luxurious, not the impious; but the laborious, and full of troubles, chastened by fears, anxious with temptations: this very innocent life I mean, such as it became Martha to have. This therefore, as much as ye can, inspect: and of this, as I have said, think more abundantly than we speak. But the iniquitous life was absent from that house, neither was it with Martha, nor with Mary: and if at any time it was, when the Lord entered it fled.
&teDeum
