[Officium]
Fifth day within the Octave of Saint Laurence, Martyr

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Maximus the Bishop (of Turin.)
!Homily 1 on Saint Laurence
It is holy, brethren, and pleasing unto God, that we should venerate the birthday of blessed Laurence with especial devotion: by whose radiant flames the victorious Church of Christ shineth forth throughout the whole world even unto this day. Who, when he was discharging the office of deacon in the see of the most glorious Patriarch, by the purity of an innocent life and by the triumph of a most valiant death, joined himself to the apostolic fellowship. Nor without cause do we proclaim him almost equal to the Apostles, to whom both chastity of soul gave the levitical ministry, and the fullness of faith conferred the dignity of martyrdom.

[Lectio5]
When the worshipful Sixtus, Bishop of the city of Rome, was overcoming through suffering the wickedness of a frantic world, and was now drawing very nigh to the kingdom of heaven, he saw Lawrence very sorrowful at the death of his ghostly father, and he is said to have addressed to him, in the spirit of prophecy, these words Be not sorrowful, my son yet three days, and thou shalt follow me. Hence it appeareth, dearly beloved brethren, that the blessed Lawrence was not sorrowful because of his Bishop's victory, but because he was not going to equal his Bishop in conquering the world. Be not sorrowful, my son, said Sixtus, yet three days, and thou shalt follow me, that is to say Be not sorrowful, as though thou wert left alone in the world thy faith and thy life will not suffer thee to go without such a death as thou wouldest.

[Lectio6]
When, therefore, Lawrence learned from the mouth of the Priest and Martyr that he also was to be taken away, he called together the multitudes of the needy, and dispersed among them with godly bounty the treasures of the Church. This was a deep and heavenly thought of this spiritual-minded man, that he might care for the poor, and also that, at the same time, by the multitude consuming what he had given them, the persecutor might not be able to find anything to plunder. Herein he followed that which is written He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor his righteousness endureth for ever. (Ps. cxi. 8.)

[Lectio7]
The Lesson is taken From the Holy Gospel according to John 
!John 12:24-27
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, itself remaineth alone. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom, Patriarch (of Constantinople.)
!Homily 65 on John, after the middle
Such a reason also Paul brought forward when disputing concerning the resurrection. What excuse therefore shall they have who believe not the resurrection, when we see this daily in seeds and in plants, and even in our own kind? For first the seed must be corrupted, thence generation cometh to pass. But altogether, when God doeth anything, there is no need of reason. How did He make us out of nothing? This I say to Christians, who say that they believe the Scriptures.

[Lectio8]
But I will say also another thing from human reasons. Some follow after malice, others after virtue: but of the followers of malice many have come prosperously unto extreme old age, but of virtue the contrary. How therefore shall each receive according to his merits? when? Certainly, they say; but the bodies shall not rise again. Do they not hear Paul saying: For this corruptible must put on incorruption? Nor doth he understand the soul, which indeed is not corrupted: and the resurrection is said of the dead: but the body hath fallen.
