[Rank]
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex I classis cum Octava Communi;;7;;ex C11

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. O Virgin thou, the spirit's fair'st,
Predestined by the will divine,
Within thy sacred womb thou bear'st
His only Son, and also thine.
_
O thou in whom rich grace abounds,
Foretold thou wast to be the foe
Who in her origin confounds
The wicked demon here below.
_
Within thy womb anew Life's made,
The very life by Adam lost
Has been renewed by thee, sweet maid,
Who didst provide the holocaust.
_
Thy will immersed in Jesus' own,
Atoning for the sins of all,
He raises thee to Heaven's throne,
In victory o'er death's dread thrall.
_
In thy great glory burning bright
Exalted nature sings the praise,
And unto beauty's very height,
Dost honor and all glory raise.
_
Triumphant Queen to Heaven borne,
Upon us exiles turn thy sight,
That to the ever-blessed morn
We may be guided by thy light.
_
All honor, laud, and glory be,
O Jesu, Virgin-born to thee;
All glory, as is ever meet
To Father and to Paraclete. 
Amen.

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who didst assume into heavenly glory the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the Mother of Thy Son, in body and soul: grant, we beseech Thee; that, being always intent upon the things above, we may merit to be partakers of her glory.
$Per eumdem

[Octava 1]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Today the Blessed Virgin Mary * ascended to heaven, rejoice, she reigns with Christ forever.
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Almighty everlasting God, who didst assume into heavenly glory the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the Mother of Thy Son, in body and soul: grant, we beseech Thee; that, being always intent upon the things above, we may merit to be partakers of her glory.
$Per eumdem

[Hymnus Matutinum]
v. Arise! Already the fierce winter hath ceased from the earth,
The beauty of all flowers smileth in the meadows,
Thou who wast the loving Mother of Life,
Arise, O Mary!
_
A lily shining as in a bush,
Thou alone dost crush the author of death, plucking
For the guilty the fruit denied unto the fathers
From the tree of life.
_
An ark not fashioned of corruptible wood,
Thou keepest the manna, from which virtue floweth,
By which the bones once more animated
Shall rise from the sepulchres.
_
Docile handmaid of the ruling mind,
The flesh suffereth not to be dissolved in corruption;
The Spirit, thy consort without end,
Hath winged thee to the stars.
_
Arise! Seek heaven, leaning upon the Beloved,
Take the diadem set with stars,
And, singing of thee as the blessed of thy children,
Receive their song.
_
Praise be perpetual unto the most high Trinity,
Which hath granted thee, O Virgin, the crown,
And hath providently established thee as Queen
And our Mother.
Amen.

[Ant Matutinum]
The holy Mother of God is exalted over choirs of Angels * into the heavenly kingdom.;;8
Through thee have the gates of Paradise been thrown open to us, * O thou who this day dost triumph so gloriously among the Angels.;;18
Blessed art thou among women, * and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb.;;23
In thy comeliness and thy beauty, * go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.;;44
The Most High * has sanctified His tabernacle.;;45
Glorious things * are spoken of thee, O Virgin Mary.;;86
Rejoice, O Virgin Mary, * thou hast trampled down all the heresies in the whole world.;;95
The heavens shall announce * his justice, and all peoples will see his glory.;;96
Sing to the Lord * a new song, for he hath done marvelous things unto thee, O Mary.;;97

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Genesis
!Gen 3:9-15
9 And the Lord God called Adam, and said to him: Where art thou? 
10 And he said: I heard thy voice in paradise; and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.
11 And he said to him: And who hath told thee that thou wast naked, but that thou hast eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat? 
12 And Adam said: The woman, whom thou gavest me to be my companion, gave me of the tree, and I did eat. 
13 And the Lord God said to the woman: Why hast thou done this? And she answered: The serpent deceived me, and I did eat. 
14 And the Lord God said to the serpent: Because thou hast done this thing, thou art cursed among all cattle, and beasts of the earth: upon thy breast shalt thou go, and earth shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. 
15 I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed: she shall crush thy head, and thou shalt lie in wait for her heel.

[Lectio2]
From the First Epistle of Blessed Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 15:20-26
20 But now Christ is risen from the dead, the firstfruits of them that sleep:
21 For by a man came death, and by a man the resurrection of the dead. 
22 And as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive. 
23 But every one in his own order: the firstfruits Christ, then they that are of Christ, who have believed in his coming. 
24 Afterwards the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God and the Father, when he shall have brought to nought all principality, and power, and virtue. 
25 For he must reign, until he hath put all his enemies under his feet.
26 And the enemy death shall be destroyed last.

[Lectio3]
!1 Cor 15:53-57
53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption; and this mortal must put on immortality. 
54 And when this mortal hath put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. 
55 O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?
56 Now the sting of death is sin: and the power of sin is the law. 
57 But thanks be to God, who hath given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

[Responsory4]
@Commune/C11:Responsory6:s/:.\&.*/ thy name is as ointment poured forth./s

[Lectio6]
From the Acts of Pope Pius the Twelfth
_
Since indeed the universal Church hath at all times and Since the universal Church throughout the course of the ages hath manifested faith in the bodily Assumption of the blessed Virgin Mary, and the Bishops of the whole world with almost unanimous consent have petitioned that this truth, which is grounded upon the Sacred Scriptures, is deeply rooted in the minds of the faithful, and is plainly consonant with the other revealed truths, should be defined as a dogma of divine and Catholic faith, Pius the Twelfth, Supreme Pontiff, yielding to the desires of the whole Church, resolved solemnly to proclaim this privilege of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Therefore on the first day of November of the great Jubilee year one thousand nine hundred and fifty, at Rome, in the open square before the Basilica of Saint Peter, in the presence of a gathering of very many Cardinals of the Holy Roman Church and Bishops even from distant regions, before an immense multitude of the faithful, the whole Catholic world applauding, he proclaimed by an infallible oracle the bodily Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary into heaven in these words: After we had again and again raised our suppliant prayers unto God, and had invoked the light of the Spirit of Truth, unto the glory of Almighty God, who hath bestowed His peculiar benevolence upon the Virgin Mary, unto the honour of His Son, the immortal King of ages and conqueror of sin and death, unto the increase of the glory of the same august Mother and unto the joy and exultation of the whole Church, by the authority of Our Lord Jesus Christ, of the Blessed Apostles Peter and Paul, and by Our own, we pronounce, declare and define it to be a dogma revealed: that the Immaculate Mother of God, the ever Virgin Mary, when the course of her earthly life was finished, was assumed body and soul into heavenly glory.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time: Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spoke out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women. And so on.
_
Homily of Saint Peter Canisius the Priest
!On the Virgin Mother of God, book 5, chapter 6
The Church performeth the sacred festivals of the Mother of God as frequently as she does reverently, understanding for certain that this office is pleasing unto God and worthy of the faithful, whereby among all the blessed men and women the most blessed Mother of our Lord and God is often celebrated at fixed times of the year and with public ceremonies. But among these festivals, which for so many ages have hitherto been religiously observed, the feast of the Assumption is reputed the greatest, and holdeth the chief place. Nor indeed did any day more joyful and more happy befall Mary, if we duly contemplate the new felicity of both soul and body conferred upon her on that day: and therefore if ever before, then most especially did her spirit and soul and body wondrously exult in the living God, and she herself with highest right was able to say: He hath regarded the humility of His handmaid: for behold from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed: because He that is mighty hath done great things unto me.

[Lectio8]
O thrice blessed and truly august Mother, it is for this reason that we who love thee and thy Son cannot refrain from congratulating thee with all sincerity upon thine admirable and incomparable happiness, especially since everything that seeing that whatsoever things have been said by the Lord unto thee and concerning thee are concluded with so fair an issue, and are at length perfected in every part. Blessed art thou who not only hast believed, but hast also this day obtained the fruit and end of faith and of every virtue, and hast merited at last to enjoy the most joyful sight of Him whom thou didst so greatly love and desire. Thou didst receive as a hostess Emmanuel entering into thee as a guest, as into a mighty fortress in this world; this day in turn thou art received by Him into His royal palace, and as a mother worthy of such a Solomon thou art first magnificently honoured.

[Lectio9]
O blessed day which sent so precious a gift from the desert of this world, and carried it to the holy and eternal city, so that universal and unheard of joy no less than admiration welled up in all the blessed in heaven. O blessed day which satisfied the desires of the languishing spouse, as ardent as they were long-lasting, so that she found what she had sought, received what she had asked, securely possessed what she had awaited, namely resting wholly in that perfect vision and fruition of the supreme and eternal good. O blessed day which advanced and exalted the most humble handmaid of the Lord even unto this, that she was made the most excellent Queen of heaven and Lady [Domina] of the world, and could not indeed rise higher, since being raised upon the Throne of the Kingdom, she hath sat down glorious after Christ. O blessed and plainly to be venerated is this day, which hath established and confirmed for us in the kingdom of God a Queen and Mother at once powerful and clement, that we may have the same [as mother], who continually remaineth the Mother of the Judge, as a mother of mercy favouring us, patronizing [interceding for] us before Christ, and faithfully procuring the work of our salvation.
&teDeum

[Capitulum Laudes]
!Jdt 13:22-23
v. The Lord hath blessed thee by his power, because by thee he hath brought our enemies to nought. Blessed art thou, O daughter, by the Lord the most high God, above all women upon the earth.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Laudes]
v.  O Virgin, who shines with sun's rays surrounded,
And over whose head glows the twelve starred crown,
The moon of high heaven thy footstool is made,
Thou Queen of renown.
_
O thou Victress over hell and dreadful death,
Enthroned near Christ and ever our Mother,
Earth and the heavens sing loud of thy glory,
Thou sovereign Queen.
_
But evil still is menacing thy children, 
Confided to thee by thy crucified Son,
O Mother, draw nigh, `gainst the demon defend
By crushing his head.
_
Guard thou the faithful all who follow thy Son,
And bring back to the sheepfold of the Shepherd
Far wandering souls that are shadowed by death,
O save every one.
_
In kindness beg mercy for all poor sinners;
Also the sick, the poor, the sorrowful, aid;
`Midst life's thorns grant light and peaceful assurance
Of our salvation.
_
Praise to the Triune Godhead everlasting, 
Who hath caused thee, O Virgin, to be crowned,
And providently willed our queen thou shouldst be
Also our Mother.
Amen.

[Octava 2]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Assumption of the B.M.V.
Ant. Who is she * that cometh up like the rising dawn, * fair as the moon, clear as the sun, terrible as a fenced camp set in battle array?
_
V. The holy Mother of God hath been exalted.
R. Over choirs of Angels, into the heavenly kingdom.
_
$Oremus
Almighty everlasting God, who didst assume into heavenly glory the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the Mother of Thy Son, in body and soul: grant, we beseech Thee; that, being always intent upon the things above, we may merit to be partakers of her glory.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio Prima]
!Jdt 15:10
v. Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people.

[Capitulum Sexta]
!Jdt 13:24-25
v. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath so magnified thy name this day, that thy praise shall not depart out of the mouth of men.
$Deo gratias
