[Rank]
Fourth day of the octave of the Assumption of Blessed Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/08-15

[Lectio1]
From the Canticle of Canticles
!Song 4:1-4.
(The Bridegroom) How beautiful art thou, my love, how beautiful art thou! Thine eyes are doves’ eyes, besides what is hid within. Thy hair is as flocks of goats, which come up from mount Galaad. Thy teeth as flocks of sheep, that are shorn, which come up from the washing, all with twins, and there is none barren among them. Thy lips are as a scarlet lace: and thy speech sweet. Thy cheeks are as a piece of a pomegranate, besides that which lieth hid within. Thy neck is as the tower of David, which is built with bulwarks: a thousand bucklers hang upon it, all the armour of valiant men.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio2]
!Song 4:7-10
Thou art all fair, O my love, and there is not a spot in thee. Come from Libanus, my spouse, come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned from the top of Amana, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the dens of the lions, from the mountains of the leopards. Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my heart with one of thine eyes, and with one hair of thy neck. How beautiful are thy breasts, my sister, my spouse! thy breasts are more beautiful than wine, and the sweet smell of thy ointments above all aromatical spices.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio3]
!Song 4:11-15
Thy lips, my spouse, are as a dropping honeycomb, milk and honey are under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments, as the smell of frankincense. My sister, my spouse, is a garden enclosed, a garden enclosed, a fountain sealed up. Thy plants are a paradise of pomegranates with the fruits of the orchard. Cypress with spikenard. Spikenard and saffron, sweet cane and cinnamon, with all the trees of Libanus, myrrh and aloes with all the chief ointments. The fountain of gardens: the well of living waters, which run with a strong stream from Libanus.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio4r]
From the Apostolic Constitution of Pope Pius the Twelfth
_
The arguments and considerations of the holy Fathers and of theologians rest upon the Sacred Scriptures as upon their ultimate foundation; which indeed set before us the loving Mother of God as most closely united unto her divine Son, and always sharing His lot.  Therefore, it seemeth impossible to think of her who conceived Christ, gave birth to him, gave him milk, held him in her arms, and clasped him to her heart, as being, after her earthly life, separated from him in body if not in soul. Since our Redeemer is the Son of Mary, He could not assuredly, as the most perfect observer of the divine law, fail to honour also His most beloved Mother besides the Eternal Father. And since He was able to adorn her with so great an honour as to preserve her unharmed from the corruption of the sepulchre, it is to be believed that He actually did so.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio5r]
forth by the holy Fathers as a new Eve, most closely united, though subject, unto the new Adam in that combat against the infernal enemy which, as is prefigured in the protoevangelium, was to come unto the fullest victory over sin and over death, which are always linked together in the writings of the Apostle of the Gentiles. Wherefore, as the glorious resurrection of Christ was an essential part and the final trophy of this victory, so the common combat of the Blessed Virgin with her Son was to be concluded by the “glorification” of her virginal body; for as the same Apostle saith, “when this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory.”
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio6r]
Therefore the august Mother of God, joined in a mysterious manner from all eternity unto Jesus Christ by “one and the same decree” of predestination, immaculate in her conception, a most pure virgin in her divine maternity, the generous associate of the divine Redeemer who achieved a full triumph over sin and its consequences, at length obtained, as the supreme crown of her privileges, that she should be preserved immune from the corruption of the sepulchre, and that, as her Son already, having overcome death, she should be raised body and soul unto the heavenly glory above, where she should shine as Queen at the right hand of the same her Son, the immortal King of ages.
(sed rubrica 1955 omittitur)

[Lectio7] (rubrica 1954)
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:41-50
At that time: Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost, and she cried out with a loud voice, and said: Blessed art thou among women. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Peter Damian the Bishop
!On the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
O Virgin Mother of God, whose beauty the sun and the moon admire, help, O Lady, those that cry unto thee continually: Return, return, O Sulamitess: return, return, that we may behold thee. Thou blessed, and more than blessed, return by power. He that is mighty hath done great things unto thee, and all power is given unto thee in heaven and upon earth. Nothing is impossible unto thee, unto whom it is possible to raise up the desperate unto the hope of beatitude. For how shall that power be able to resist thy power, which took the origin of flesh from thy flesh? For thou approachest before that golden altar of human reconciliation, not only asking, but commanding, as Lady [Domina], not as handmaid. Let nature move thee, let power move thee, because the more powerful thou art, the more merciful thou oughtest to be. For it yieldeth unto power for glory, to be unwilling to avenge injuries when one is able. Return by love. I know, O Lady, that thou art most benign, and lovest us with an invincible love, whom in thee and through thee thy Son and thy God hath loved with the highest love. Who knoweth how often thou dost cool the wrath of the Judge, when the power of justice goeth forth from the presence of the Godhead?

[Lectio7] (rubrica tridentina aut rubrica 193)
From the holy Gospel according to Luke.
!Luke 10:38-42
At that time: Jesus entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her house. And the rest.
_
From the Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!From Sermon 27 on the Words of the Lord, a little before the middle
Well did Martha minister unto the bodily, what shall I say, necessity, or will of the Lord? She ministered unto the mortal flesh. But who was in the mortal flesh? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Behold what Mary was hearing. The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us. Behold unto whom Martha was ministering. Therefore Mary hath chosen the better part, which shall not be taken away from her. For she chose that which shall always remain, therefore it shall not be taken away from her.

[Lectio8] (rubrica 1954)
Turn thou unto us through thy very uniqueness. In thy hands are the treasures of the mercies of the Lord, and thou alone art chosen unto whom so great grace is granted. Far be it that thy hand should cease, when thou seekest occasion of saving the miserable and of pouring forth mercy! for neither is thy glory diminished, but increased, when penitents are assumed unto pardon, and the justified unto glory. Return therefore, O Sulamitess, that is, the despised one, whose soul the sword hath pierced, who wast called the wife of a carpenter. Unto what end? That we may behold thee. It is the highest glory after God to see thee, to adhere unto thee, and to abide in the protection of thy defence. Hear us. For the Son also, denying thee nothing, honoureth thee, who is God blessed for ever and ever. Amen.
