[Officium]
On the Octave of Saint Laurence the Martyr

[Oratio]
Stir up, O Lord, in Thy Church the Spirit which the blessed Levite Laurence served: that, being filled with the same, we may study to love what he loved, and to practise in work what he taught.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Lectio4]
From the Treatise of Saint Augustine the Bishop on John.
!Tractate 27, at the end.
We are certain, brethren, that all of us who are in the body of the Lord, and abide in Him, that He also may abide in us, must needs live in this world even unto the end among the wicked; not among those wicked, I say, who blaspheme Christ; for rarely now are they found who blaspheme with the tongue, but many who do so by their life. It is necessary therefore that we live among them even unto the end. But what is that which He saith, He that abideth in Me, and I in him? What, unless that which the Martyrs heard: He that shall persevere unto the end, he shall be saved?

[Lectio5]
How did Saint Laurence abide in Him, whose feast day we celebrate this day? He abode unto temptation, he abode unto the tyrannical interrogation, he abode unto the most bitter threatening, he abode unto destruction. It is little: he abode unto the monstrous torment. For he was not killed quickly, but was tortured in the fire. He was permitted to live long: nay rather, he was not permitted to live long, but was compelled to die slowly. In that long death therefore, in those torments, because he had eaten well and had drunk well, as one fattened by that Food [of Heaven] and drunken with that Chalice, he felt not the torments.

[Lectio6]
But the holy Martyr Xystus, whose day we celebrated five days ago, had said unto him: Do not grieve, my son: (for the former was a bishop, the latter a deacon) do not grieve, saith he, thou shalt follow me after three days. But he said three days as the interval between the day of the passion of Saint Xystus and this present day of the passion of Saint Laurence. There are three days intervening. O consolation! He saith not, Do not grieve, my son, the persecution will cease, and thou shalt be secure: but, Do not grieve: whither I go before, thou shalt follow; nor is thy following delayed. There will be three days intervening, and thou shalt be with me. He received the oracle, he conquered the devil, he arrived at the triumph.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:24-28
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, itself remaineth alone. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom, Patriarch (of Constantinople.)
!Homily 66 on John.
The present life is sweet, and full of much pleasure, yet not unto all, but only unto those who are attached unto it. But if anyone shall have looked up unto heaven, and shall have contemplated the things that are excellent there, he will at once despise this, and will esteem it of no value. For the beauty of bodies also, so long as a fairer is not discovered, is held in admiration: but when another more excellent hath appeared, that former is despised. But if we also shall have been willing to look upon that beauty, and to consider the form of the heavenly kingdom, we shall at once dissolve ourselves from the bonds of this world.

[Lectio8]
For the affection of earthly things is a bond: unto the dissolution of which that Christ might lead us, hear what He saith. He that loveth his soul shall lose it: and he that hateth his soul in this world, keepeth it unto life everlasting. This saying seemeth similar unto a riddle: yet it is not so, nay rather it is full of especial wisdom. And how doth he that loveth his soul lose it? He that obeyeth its absurd desires, he that indulgeth it beyond what is due: even as on the contrary, he that hateth it in this world keepeth it: that is, he that obeyeth it not when it commandeth things hurtful.

[Lectio9]
And He said not: He that obeyeth not, but, He that hateth. For even as those whom we hold in hatred, we cannot with a calm mind endure even to hear their voice, nor to see their countenance: so also the soul, if it commandeth us anything beyond the will of God, we ought vehemently to abhor. For when He was about to speak unto them concerning death, namely concerning His own death, and foresaw their sadness and fainting of spirit, and spake in strong expressions, as though He said: What shall I say, if ye take not My death bravely? Unless ye also die, ye shall gain no profit.
