[Officium]
Saint Clare, Virgin

[Name]
Clare

[Lectio4]
Clare, a noble virgin, born at Assisi in Umbria, having imitated Saint Francis her fellow-citizen, distributed and converted all her goods into alms and supports of the poor. Fleeing from the noise of the world, she withdrew to a country church, (on the 18th day of March, 1212,) and there, having received the tonsure from the same blessed Francis, she strongly resisted her kinsfolk who were attempting to bring her back. And finally she was brought by the same to the church of Saint Damian, where the Lord aggregated to her many companions; and thus she founded an holy Sisterhood, which, at the earnest entreaty of holy Francis, she governed. She governed her monastery solicitously and prudently, in the fear of the Lord and in full observance of the order, for forty-two years wondrously; for her life was instruction and doctrine to the others, whence the rest learned the rule of living.

[Lectio5]
That, the flesh being depressed, she might grow strong in spirit, she had the bare ground and sometimes twigs for a bed, and for a pillow under her head a hard wood. She used one tunic with a mantle of cheap and rough cloth, a harsh hair-shirt being sometimes applied next to the flesh. She restrained herself with so great abstinence that for a long time on three days in the week she tasted nothing at all for the nourishment of her body; but on the remaining days restraining herself with such scantiness of food that others marvelled how she was able to subsist. Twice yearly (before she fell ill) she fasted the Lents, refreshed only with bread and water. Moreover being continually devoted to vigils and prayers, she spent days and nights especially in these. Being long entangled with illnesses, when she could not rise by herself for bodily exercise, she was raised by the help of the sisters; and, supports being placed at her back, she laboured with her own hands, lest even in her infirmities she should be idle. A special lover of poverty, she never departed from it for any necessity; and she most constantly refused the possessions offered by Gregory the Ninth for the sustenance of the sisters.

[Lectio6]
By many and various miracles the virtue of her holiness shone forth. To a certain one of the sisters of her monastery she restored ready speech; to another she opened a deaf ear; she freed one labouring with fever, one swollen with dropsy, one afflicted with a fistula, and others oppressed with other illnesses. She healed a brother of the Order of Minors from the passion of insanity. When oil had wholly failed in the monastery, Clare took a pitcher and washed it, and it was found filled with oil by the benefit of the divine liberality. She so multiplied the half of one loaf that it sufficed for fifty sisters. When the Saracens were besieging Assisi (in the year 1239,) and attempting to invade the monastery of Clare, being ill she willed to be brought to the gate, and together a vessel in which the most holy sacrament of the Eucharist was enclosed, and there she prayed: Deliver not, O Lord, unto the beasts the souls that confess to Thee, and keep Thy handmaids, whom Thou hast redeemed with Thy precious blood. In whose prayer that voice was heard: I will always keep you. But the Saracens partly committed themselves to flight, partly, those who had climbed the wall, being captured [blinded] in their eyes, fell headlong. Finally the Virgin herself, when she was in her last extremities, being visited by a white company of blessed Virgins (among whom one more eminent and more shining appeared), and having received the sacred Eucharist, and being enriched with the indulgence of sins by Innocent the Fourth, on the third of the Ides of August (12th day of August, 1253) rendered her soul to God. But after her death, resplendent with very many miracles, Alexander the Fourth numbered her among the holy Virgins.

[Lectio94]
Clare, a noble virgin, born at Assisi in Umbria, having imitated Saint Francis her fellow-citizen, distributed all her goods into alms and supports of the poor. Fleeing from the noise of the world, she withdrew to a country church, and there, having received the tonsure from the same blessed Francis, she strongly resisted her kinsfolk who were attempting to bring her back. Then being brought by the same to the church of Saint Damian, where she founded an Order of nuns, whose government, overcome by the excessive importunity of Saint Francis, she received. She governed her monastery solicitously and prudently for forty-two years wondrously. The Saracens attempting to invade the monastery, when she had ordered the most holy Sacrament to be brought, praying most humbly, she wholly put them to flight. She flew into heaven on the day before the Ides of August, and by Pope Alexander the Fourth she was numbered among the holy Virgins.
&teDeum
