[Rank]
Vigil of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Simplex;;1.5

[Oratio]
O God, who didst deign to choose the virginal chamber of blessed Mary in which Thou wouldst dwell: grant, we beseech Thee; that, being fortified by her defence, Thou wouldst make us joyful to take part in her festival:
$Qui vivis

[Lectio1_]
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 11:27-28
At that time: As Jesus was speaking to the multitudes, a certain woman from the crowd, lifting up her voice, said unto Him: Blessed is the womb that bore Thee. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom
!On John, chapter 2, Homily 20, toward the end
When thou hearest that woman saying: Blessed is the womb that bore Thee, and the breasts which Thou didst suck; and then the Lord answering: Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God and keep it; judge that it was said in that sense, not that He neglected His Mother, but that He might show that the name of mother would bring her no profit, unless she excelled in goodness and faith. But if maternal charity without virtue was to profit Mary nothing; far less shall the goodness of father, brother, mother, or son profit us, unless we bring something of our own.

[Lectio1t]
!For the Eve of the Assumption.
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke 
!Luke 11:17-28 
At that time: As Jesus was speaking to the multitudes, a certain woman from the crowd, lifting up her voice, said unto Him: Blessed is the womb that bore Thee. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop (of Hippo.) 
!Tract. 10 on John, after the beginning
Blessed is the Virgin Mary, because she did the will of the Father. This the Lord magnified in her, because she did the will of the Father, not because flesh begot flesh. Let your charity attend. Therefore when the Lord appeared wonderful in the crowd, doing signs and wonders, and showing what lay hidden in the flesh, certain souls in admiration said: Blessed is the womb that bore Thee. And He: Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it. This is to say: And My mother, whom ye call blessed, is blessed thence, because she keepeth the word of God: not because in her the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us: but because she keepeth that same Word of God, by which she was made, and which in her was made flesh.
&teDeum

[Lectio2]
For in no other thing, save in the virtues of each one alone, after the divine grace, is hope of salvation to be placed for anyone. For if that were of itself to profit Mary, it would also have profited the Jews, of whose blood Christ was according to the flesh; it would have profited the city in which He was born; it would have profited His brethren. And yet, while the brethren had care of their own affairs, the name of kinship profited them nothing, but with the rest of the world they were condemned.

[Lectio3]
Then only did they begin to be worthy of admiration, when they shone by their own virtue. His native land, indeed, having gained nothing from its own connection with him, fell and was burnt by fire; his fellow-citizens were put to death and perished miserably; his kindred according to the flesh gained nothing towards their salvation; insofar as all these lacked the protection of virtue. But of them all, the Apostles became the most renowned, since by obedience they joined themselves to him in a right and desirable friendship and companionship. From this we learn, that we always have need of faith, and a life shining with virtues; since this alone will have power to save us.
