[Officium]
Saint John Eudes, Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who did wondrously inspire blessed John, thy Confessor in promoting veneration to the sacred hearts of Jesus and Mary, and didst will to found through him new religious families in the Church, grant we pray, that we, who venerate his holy merits, may be taught also by the example of his virtues.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio4]
John was born in the year one thousand six hundred and one, in the village commonly called Ri, of the diocese of Séez, of pious and honest parents. While still a boy, refreshed with the bread of Angels, he cheerfully vowed perpetual chastity. Received into the college of Caen directed by the fathers of the Society of Jesus, he shone with singular piety; and committing himself to the protection of the Virgin Mary, while scarcely an adolescent he signed with his blood a special covenant entered into with her. Having completed the course of letters and philosophy with much praise, and having spurned the marriages offered unto him, he gave his name unto the congregation of the Oratory of Bérulle, and was advanced unto the priesthood at Paris. He burned with wondrous charity toward his neighbour: for in many places he gave diligent care unto the healing of bodies stricken by the Asiatic plague, and of souls. Made rector of the Oratorian house at Caen, when he had long thought of forming suitable youths for the ministry of the Church, having implored the divine help, though with difficulty, he departed with a strong soul from the companions with whom he had lived for twenty years.

[Lectio5]
Associating therefore five priests unto himself, in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-three, on the feast day of the Annunciation of the blessed Virgin Mary, he instituted a congregation of priests, unto which he gave the most holy names of Jesus and Mary, and opened the first seminary at Caen, which several others, by the same founder, followed in Normandy and in Brittany. For the recalling of sinful women unto the Christian life, he founded the order of Our Lady of Charity; of which most noble tree a branch is the congregation of Angers of the Good Shepherd. Moreover he founded the society of the Admirable Heart of the Mother of God, and other works of charity. He published many writings excellently, and as an Apostolic missionary he evangelized even unto extreme old age many villages, towns and cities, and even the royal court itself.

[Lectio6]
His singular zeal shone forth in the promotion of the salutary devotion toward the most sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, whose liturgical cult to be rendered unto them he, not without some divine inspiration, first of all conceived; and therefore he was held as the father, doctor and apostle of the same cult. Strongly resisting the doctrines of the Jansenists, he preserved an unchanging obedience toward the chair of Peter, and for his enemies, as for brethren, he prayed assiduously unto God. Broken by so many labours rather than by years, desiring to be dissolved and to be with Christ, on the nineteenth day of August, in the year one thousand six hundred and eighty, repeating often the sweet names of Jesus and Mary, he expired peacefully. Whom, famous by many miracles, Pope Pius the Tenth enrolled in the catalogue of the Blessed, and whom, shining with new signs, Pope Pius the Eleventh, in the sacred year, on the Sunday of Pentecost, numbered among the Saints, and extended his Office and Mass unto the universal Church.

[Lectio94]
John was born in the year one thousand six hundred and one, in the village commonly called Ri, of the diocese of Séez, of pious and honest parents. While still a boy, already refreshed with the bread of Angels, he vowed perpetual chastity. In the schools, where he completed his studies praiseworthily, he shone with wondrous piety. He loved the Blessed Virgin most greatly, and burned with outstanding charity toward his neighbour. He gave his name unto the Congregation of the Oratory of Bérulle and was advanced unto the priesthood at Paris. Made Rector of the Oratorian house at Caen, he departed from the same, though with difficulty, that he might form suitable youths for the ministry of the Church. Wherefore, having associated five companions unto himself, he founded the Congregation of Priests, unto which he gave the most holy names of Jesus and Mary, and opened the first Seminary at Caen, which several others afterwards followed. That he might recall sinful women unto the Christian life, he founded the Institute of Our Lady of Charity: of which most noble tree a branch is the Congregation of Angers of the Good Shepherd. He added the Society of the Admirable Heart of the Mother of God, and other works of charity. Burning with singular love toward the most holy Hearts of Jesus and Mary, he first thought, not without some divine inspiration, of the liturgical cult to be rendered unto them. As an Apostolic missionary he evangelized very many villages and cities. Broken by so many labours, near unto death, on the nineteenth day of August in the year one thousand six hundred and eighty he expired peacefully. Whom, famous by miracles, Pope Pius the Tenth numbered among the Blessed, but Pius the Eleventh, in the sacred year, on the day of Pentecost, among the Saints, and extended his Office and Mass unto the universal Church.
&teDeum
