[Officium]
Fourth Day Within the Octave of St. Lawrence

[Lectio4]
!Ex libro Officiorum S. Ambrósii Epíscopi. Lib. 1., cap. 41., in medio.
Let us not pass over holy Laurence, who when he saw his bishop being led to martyrdom, began to weep not for his passion, but for his own remaining behind. And so he began to address him with these words: Whither goest thou without thy son, O father? Whither, O holy priest, dost thou hasten without a deacon? Never wast thou wont to offer the sacrifice without a minister. What therefore hath displeased in me, O father? Hast thou proved me degenerate? Prove at least whether thou hast chosen a suitable minister. To whom thou hast committed the dispensing of the Lord’s blood, to whom the fellowship of the sacraments to be consummated, dost thou deny to this one the fellowship of thy blood?

[Lectio5]
!Lib. 2., cap. 28., post medium.
From whom when the treasures of the Church were sought, he promised that he would show them. On the following day he led the poor. Being asked where were the treasures which he had promised, he showed the poor, saying: These are the treasures of the Church. And truly treasures, in whom Christ is, in whom the faith of Christ is. Finally the Apostle saith: We have this treasure in earthen vessels. (2 Cor. iv. 7.) What better treasures hath Christ than those in whom He said that He is? For so it is written: I was hungry, and ye gave Me to eat: I was thirsty, and ye gave Me to drink: I was a stranger, and ye took Me in. And below: For whatsoever ye have done to one of these, ye have done to Me. (Matth. xxv. 35, 40.) These treasures Laurence showed, and he conquered, because not even the persecutor was able to take them away.

[Lectio6]
Was it said to holy Laurence: Thou oughtest not to have distributed the treasures of the Church, to have sold the vessels of the sacraments? It is necessary that one fulfil this office with sincere faith and clear-sighted providence. If any man do it for his own profit, it is surely a sin, but if it be done to help the poor or redeem slaves, it is a work of mercy. For no man can say, Why doth the needy live? or, Why ought we to ransom slaves? No man can challenge it, if it be done to build the temple of God. No man can rebuke it, if a rule be stretched to bury the remains of the faithful. No man can grieve that in the burials of Christians there is rest for the dead. In these three kinds it is lawful even to break, melt, and sell the consecrated vessels of the Church.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:25-27
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, itself remaineth alone. And the rest.
_
Continuation of the Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo. As on Aug. 11.) From Tract. 51 on John, near the end. He is a minister of Christ even unto that work of great charity, which is to lay down his soul for the brethren: for this is also to lay it down for Christ, because concerning His members also He will say: When ye did it for these, ye did it for Me. (Matth. xxv. 35, 40.) Of such a work indeed He deigned both to make and to call Himself a minister, where He saith: As the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give His soul a redemption for many. Hence therefore is each one a minister of Christ, whence also Christ is a minister. So the Father of Him will honour him that ministereth to Christ with that great honour, that he may be with His Son, and his happiness may never fail.

[Lectio8]
When therefore ye hear, brethren, the Lord saying: Where I am, there also shall My minister be, do not think only of good bishops and clerics: ye also according to your measure minister to Christ, by living well, by doing alms, by preaching His name and doctrine to whom ye can: that each father of a family also by this name may acknowledge that he oweth a paternal affection to his household. For Christ, and for eternal life, let him admonish, teach, exhort, correct all his own, bestow benevolence, exercise discipline: thus in his own house he will fulfil an ecclesiastical and in a certain manner episcopal office, ministering to Christ, that he may be with Him for ever.
