[Officium]
Saint Joachim, Confessor, Father of the Blessed Virgin Mary

[Versum 1]
V. His seed shall be mighty upon earth.
R. The generation of the upright shall be blessed.

[Ant 1]
Let us praise * a glorious man in his generation, because the Lord gave him the blessing of all nations, and confirmed His covenant upon his head.

[Oratio]
O God, who before all Thy Saints didst will blessed Joachim to be the father of the Mother of Thy Son: grant, we beseech Thee; that we may also continually experience the patronage of him whose festival we venerate.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Epiphanius the Bishop (of Pavia) 
!Oration on the Praises of the Virgin, toward the beginning
From the root of Jesse arose king David, and from the tribe of king David the holy Virgin: holy, I say, and daughter of holy men, whose parents were Joachim and Anna; who indeed in their life pleased God, and also brought forth such a fruit, the holy Virgin Mary, both temple and mother of God. Moreover Joachim, Anna and Mary, these three openly offered a sacrifice of praise unto the Trinity. For Joachim is interpreted Preparation of the Lord, because from him was prepared the temple of the Lord, namely the Virgin. Anna again is likewise interpreted Grace, for that Joachim and Anna received grace, that by approaching prayers they might bring forth such a fruit, having obtained the holy Virgin; for Joachim prayed upon the mountain, and Anna in her garden.

[Lectio5]
Sermon of Saint John Damascene
!Oration 1 on the Nativity of the Virgin Mary, about the beginning
Since it was to come to pass that the Virgin Mother of God should arise from Anna, nature dared not at all to anticipate the offspring of grace; but waited so long until grace had produced her fruit. For it was fitting that she should be brought forth first-born into the light, who was to bring forth the First-born of all created things, in whom all things are compacted [?]. O blessed pair Joachim and Anna! unto you is all creation indebted. For through you it offered unto the Creator the gift most excellent of all gifts, namely the chaste mother, who alone was worthy of the Creator.

[Lectio6]
Rejoice, Joachim, because of thy daughter a Son is born unto us; and His name is called the Angel of great counsel, that is, of the salvation of the whole world. Let Nestorius be put to shame, and let him put his hand upon his mouth. This Child is God. How therefore is she not the Mother of God, who brought Him forth? If anyone confesseth not the holy Mother of God, he is far removed from the Godhead. This is not my discourse, although otherwise it is mine; for I have received this most divine inheritance from the theologian father Gregory. O blessed pair Joachim and Anna! And assuredly from the fruit of your womb ye are known to be immaculate, even as Christ said in a certain place: By their fruits ye shall know them. As it was pleasing and worthy unto God, so did ye order the ways of your life from which she arose. For chastely and holily discharging your office, ye produced the treasure of virginity.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-16
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint John Damascene
!Book 4 on the Orthodox Faith, chapter 15 on the genealogy of the Lord and of the holy Mother of God
That Joseph drew his origin from the Davidic tribe, the most holy Evangelists Matthew and Luke have clearly demonstrated. But this is the difference between them, that Matthew deriveth Joseph from David through Solomon; but Luke through Nathan. But both have passed over in silence the origin of the holy Virgin. Wherefore it is worth while to know that neither among the Hebrews nor in the sacred Scripture was it customary that the lineage of women should be recounted. But this at length was provided by the law, that no tribe should take wives from another tribe. And therefore Joseph, who drew his origin from the Davidic tribe and cultivated justice (for this praise the divine Gospel attributeth unto him), would by no means have betrothed the holy Virgin contrary to the prescription of the law, unless she had drawn her lineage from the same sceptre. And for that reason the Evangelist held it sufficient to demonstrate whence Joseph drew his origin.

[Lectio8]
Therefore from the stock of Nathan, the son of David, Levi begot Melchi and Panther. But Panther begot Barpanther (for so he was called). Barpanther again begot Joachim. Joachim finally begot the holy Mother of God. Again, from the stock of Solomon, the son of David, Mathan of his wife begot Jacob. But Mathan being dead, Melchi of the tribe of Nathan, the son of Levi and brother of Panther, joined unto himself in marriage the wife of Mathan himself, who was also the mother of Jacob, and of her begot Heli. Thus Jacob and Heli were uterine brothers [same mother]; the former indeed originating from the tribe of Solomon, the latter from the tribe of Nathan.

[Lectio9]
Moreover Heli, who was of the tribe of Nathan, having begotten no children, departed from life; and for that cause Jacob his brother, who had flowed from the tribe of Solomon, took his wife, and raised up seed unto his brother and begot Joseph. Joseph therefore was by nature the son of Jacob, originating from Solomon; but by reason of the law he had Heli for father, originating from Nathan. Which things being so, Joachim joined unto himself in marriage that most choice woman Anna, most worthy of the highest praises. But even as that ancient Anna, when she laboured under the disease of barrenness, through prayer and promise brought forth Samuel; in the same manner this one also, through entreaty and promise, received from God the Mother of God, that neither in this should she yield unto any of the illustrious matrons. And so Grace (for this the name of Anna soundeth) bringeth forth the Lady (for that is signified by the name of Mary). For truly she was made Lady (Domina) of all created things, when she stood forth as Mother of the Creator.
&teDeum
