[Officium]
Second Day Within the Octave of St. Lawrence

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!30th on the Saints
The passion of the most blessed Martyr Laurence, whose birthday we celebrate this day, I believe you know: and how great things he endured in the persecution, I doubt not that your charity is able to know. For so great was the glory of his martyrdom, that by his passion he illumined the whole world. Plainly Laurence illumined the world with that light with which he himself was kindled, and with the flames which he himself endured he warmed the hearts of all Christians.

[Lesson 5]
Who would not will to be burned for an hour with the fire of Laurence, that he may not suffer the eternal conflagration of Gehenna? By the example therefore of blessed Laurence we are provoked unto martyrdom, and we are kindled unto faith, we grow hot unto devotion: and if in us the flame of the persecutor is wanting, yet the flame of faith is not wanting. We do not indeed burn in body for Christ, but we burn in affection: the persecutor doth not subject fire to me: but the desire of the Saviour suggesteth fire to me.

[Lesson 6]
But that there is a fire of the Saviour we read in the Gospel, the same Lord saying: Know ye not that I am come to cast fire upon the earth? And what will I, but that it be kindled? With which fire those two disciples being kindled said: Was not our heart burning within us, while He spoke in the way, and opened to us the Scriptures? With this fire therefore blessed Laurence being kindled, feeleth not the burning of the flames: and while he burneth with the desire of Christ, he feeleth not the punishment of the persecutor.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:25-27
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: Amen, amen I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falling into the ground die, itself remaineth alone. And the rest.
_
From the Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop. (Of Hippo)
!From Tract. 51. on John, after the above.
When therefore the critical point of the cause shall have come, that this condition is proposed, either that something must be done against the precept of God, or that one must depart from this life; of which two if a man be compelled to choose one, the persecutor threatening death, there let him choose rather to die unto the beloved God, than to live unto the offended. There let him hate his soul in this world, that he may keep it unto life eternal. If any man minister to Me, let him follow Me. What is, Let him follow Me, unless, Let him imitate Me? For Christ suffered for us, saith the Apostle Peter, leaving us an example, that we should follow His steps. (I. ii. 21)

[Lectio8]
Behold what is said: If any man minister to Me, let him follow Me. With what fruit? with what reward? with what prize? And where I am, He saith, there also shall My minister be. Let Him be loved freely, that the price of the work whereby He is ministered unto may be to be with Him. For where shall it be well without Him, or when shall it be able to be ill with Him? Hear more evidently: If any man shall have ministered to Me, My Father will honour him. With what honour, unless that he may be with His Son? For what He said above: Where I am, there also shall My minister be, this is understood to have been explained when He saith: My Father will honour him. For what greater honour shall the adopted be able to receive, than that he may be where the Only-begotten is, not made equal to the divinity, but associated to the eternity?
