[Officium]
Saint Hyacinth, Confessor

[Name]
Hyacinth

[Lectio4]
Hyacinth the Pole was born (in 1185) of noble and Christian parents in the village of Kamién in the bishopric of Breslau. Instructed in letters from childhood, after giving attention to jurisprudence and the sacred letters, he was enrolled among the canons of Cracow, and excelled the rest by the singular piety of his manners and the highest learning. At Rome (in 1218) he was enrolled in the Order of Preachers by the founder himself, Saint Dominic, and retained most holily until the end of his life the perfect manner of living which he had learned from him. He cultivated virginity perpetually; he loved modesty, patience, humility, abstinence and the other virtues as the certain inheritance of the religious life.

[Lectio5]
Burning with charity toward God, often spending entire nights in pouring forth prayers and in chastising his body, he applied no relief unto it save leaning upon a stone or lying upon the ground. Being sent back into his native land, he first erected on the journey at Friesach a most ample monastery of his Order, and soon afterwards another at Cracow. Thence, having built four others through the other provinces of the kingdom of Poland, it is incredible to say how much he profited among all by the preaching of the word of God and by the innocence of his life. He omitted no day on which he did not furnish some outstanding proofs of faith, piety and innocence.

[Lectio6]
God illustrated the zeal of the most holy man for the salvation of his neighbours with the greatest miracles. Among which that is outstanding, that he crossed the river Vistula near Viségrad when it was overflowing with waters, using no boat, his companions also being brought across upon a cloak spread over the waves. Having prolonged an admirable manner of life for nearly forty years after his profession, the day of his death having been foretold to his brethren, on the very feast of the Assumption of the Virgin, the Canonical Hours having been discharged, the ecclesiastical sacraments having been received with the highest veneration, with those words: Into Thy hands, O Lord; he rendered his spirit to God, in the year of salvation one thousand two hundred and fifty-seven. Whom, illustrious by miracles even after his death, Pope Clement the Eighth numbered among the Saints.

[Lectio94]
Hyacinth the Pole was born of noble and Christian parents in the village of Kamién in the bishopric of Breslau. Enrolled among the canons of Cracow, he excelled the rest by the singular piety of his manners and by learning. At Rome he was enrolled in the Order of Preachers by the founder himself, Saint Dominic, and retained most holily until the end of his life the perfect manner of living which he had learned from him, virginity being perpetually preserved. Being sent back into his native land, six monasteries of his Order having been built, it is incredible to say how much he profited among all by the preaching of the word of God and by the innocence of his life, famous by frequent miracles. Among which that is outstanding, that he crossed the river Vistula near Viségrad when it was overflowing with waters, using no boat, his companions also being brought across upon a cloak spread over the waves. Having prolonged an admirable manner of life for nearly forty years after his profession, on the very feast of the Assumption of the Virgin he rendered his spirit to God, in the year of salvation one thousand two hundred and fifty-seven, and by Clement the Eighth he was numbered among the Saints.
&teDeum

[Lectio94] (rubrica tridentina)
!Commemoratio of Saint Hyacinth, Confessor
Hyacinth the Pole was born of noble and Christian parents in the village of Kamién in the bishopric of Breslau. Instructed in letters from childhood, after giving attention to jurisprudence and the sacred letters, he was enrolled among the canons of Cracow, and excelled the rest by the singular piety of his manners and the highest learning. At Rome he was enrolled in the Order of Preachers by the founder himself, Saint Dominic, and retained most holily until the end of his life the perfect manner of living which he had learned from him. He cultivated virginity perpetually: he loved modesty, patience, humility, abstinence and the other virtues as the certain inheritance of the religious life. Burning with charity toward God, often spending entire nights in pouring forth prayers and in chastising his body, he applied no relief unto it save leaning upon a stone or lying upon the ground. Being sent back into his native land, he first erected on the journey at Friesach a most ample monastery of his Order, and soon afterwards another at Cracow. Thence through the other provinces of the kingdom of Poland, four others having been built, it is incredible to say how much he profited among all by the preaching of the word of God and by the innocence of his life. He omitted no day on which he did not furnish some outstanding proofs of faith, piety and innocence. God illustrated the zeal of the most holy man for the salvation of his neighbours with the greatest miracles. Among which that is outstanding, that he crossed the river Vistula near Viségrad when it was overflowing with waters, using no boat, his companions also being brought across upon a cloak spread over the waves. Having prolonged an admirable manner of life for nearly forty years after his profession, the day of his death having been foretold to his brethren, on the very feast of the Assumption of the Virgin, the Canonical Hours having been discharged, the ecclesiastical sacraments having been received with the highest veneration, with those words: Into Thy hands, O Lord, he rendered his spirit to God, in the year of salvation one thousand two hundred and fifty-seven. Whom, illustrious by miracles even after his death, Pope Clement the Eighth numbered among the Saints.
