[Rank]
Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis;;5;;ex C11

[Ant 1]
My heart hath rejoiced * in the Lord, and my horn is exalted in my God: because I have rejoiced in Thy salvation.

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who didst prepare in the Heart of the blessed Virgin Mary a worthy dwelling-place for the Holy Ghost: propitiously grant that we who devoutly commemorate with devoted mind the festival of the same Immaculate Heart, may be able to live according to Thy Heart.
$Per Dominum eiusdem

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Bernardine of Siena
!From sermon 9 on the Visitation
What mortal, unless secured by a divine oracle, would presume with uncircumcised, nay rather polluted lips, to name anything, whether small or great, concerning the true Mother of God and man, whom God the Father before the ages predestined to be a perpetual Virgin, whom the Son chose as a most worthy Mother, for whom the Holy Ghost prepared a dwelling-place of all grace? With what words shall I, a little man, set forth the most deep senses of the virginal Heart, uttered by a most holy mouth, for which the tongue of all the Angels is not sufficient? For the Lord saith: A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things; which word may also be a treasure. Who among pure men can be thought a better man than she who merited to be made the Mother of God, who for nine months entertained God Himself in her heart and in her womb? What better treasure than the divine love itself, with which the furnace-like heart of the Virgin was burning?

[Lectio5]
And so, from this Heart as from a furnace of divine From this Heart therefore, as from a furnace of divine ardour, the blessed Virgin brought forth good words, that is, words of most ardent charity. For as from a vessel most high and full of the best wine nothing can go forth but the best wine; or as from a furnace of the highest heat nothing goeth forth but fervent fire; so from the Mother of Christ no word could go forth save that of the highest and most divine love and ardour. It is also the part of a wise lady and matron to have few words, yet solid and full of meaning; wherefore seven times, as it were seven words only of wondrous meaning and virtue, are read as spoken by the most blessed Mother of Christ, that it may be mystically shown that she herself was full of the sevenfold grace. With the Angel she spoke only twice. With Elizabeth also twice. With her Son also twice, once in the temple, the second time at the marriage. With the servants once. And in all these she always spoke very little; except that in the praise of God and in thanksgiving she herself spoke more fully, namely when she said: My soul doth magnify the Lord. Where she spoke not with man, but with God. These seven words, according to the seven processes and acts of love, were uttered in a wondrous degree and order; as though they were seven flames of her furnace-like Heart.

[Lectio6]
!From ecclesiastical documents
The liturgical cult by which due honour is rendered to the Immaculate Heart of the Virgin Mary, for which many holy men and women prepared the way, the Apostolic See itself first approved at the beginning of the nineteenth century, when Pope Pius the Seventh instituted the feast of the Most Pure Heart of the Virgin Mary, to be observed piously and holily by all dioceses and religious families that should have asked for it: which afterwards Pope Pius the Ninth enriched with a proper Office and Mass. But the ardent desire and wish, already arisen in the seventeenth century and growing stronger day by day, that this feast, endowed with greater solemnity, should be made common to the whole Church, the Supreme Pontiff Pius the Twelfth, graciously receiving it in the year one thousand nine hundred and forty-two, when a most atrocious war was growing heavy almost throughout the whole world, pitying the infinite hardships of the peoples, out of his piety and confidence toward the heavenly Mother, most earnestly recommended the whole human race to her most benign Heart by a solemn entreaty, and appointed a feast in honour of the same Immaculate Heart, with proper Office and Mass, to be celebrated everywhere in perpetuity.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 19:25-27
At that time: There stood by the cross of Jesus His Mother, and His Mother’s sister, Mary of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Robert Bellarmine the Bishop
!On the seven words of Christ on the Cross, chapter 12
The burden and yoke imposed by the Lord upon Saint John, that he should have the care of the Virgin Mother, was truly a sweet yoke and a light burden. For who would not most gladly dwell with that Mother who bore the Word incarnate in her womb for nine months, and dwelt with Him most devotedly and most sweetly for whole thirty years? Who would not envy the beloved of the Lord, who in the absence of the Son of God obtained the presence of the Mother of God? But, unless I am deceived, we also can by prayers obtain from the benignity of the Word incarnate for our sake, and crucified out of too great love for our sake, that He say also unto us: Behold thy Mother; and say unto His Mother concerning us: Behold thy son.

[Lectio8]
The pious Lord is not avaricious of graces, provided that we approach the throne of His grace with faith and confidence, and not with a feigned heart, but with a true and sincere one. He who willed us to be coheirs of the kingdom of His Father will certainly not disdain to have us as coheirs of the love of His Mother. Nor will the most benign Virgin herself be burdened by the multitude of children, since she hath a most ample bosom and greatly desireth that none perish of those whom her Son redeemed with so precious blood and so precious a death. Let us therefore approach with confidence unto the throne of the grace of Christ, and suppliantly and not without tears ask of Him that concerning each one of us He say unto His Mother: Behold thy son; and unto each one of us concerning His Mother He say: Behold thy Mother.

[Lectio9]
How well shall it be with us under the protection of so great a Mother? Who shall dare to drag us down from her bosom? What temptation shall be able to overcome us, confiding in the patronage of the Mother of God and of us? Nor shall we be the first in the obtaining of so great a benefit. Many have gone before us; many, I say, have approached the singular and plainly maternal patronage of so great a Virgin, and no one has been sent away confounded or sad, but all cheerful and rejoicing, relying on the patronage of so great a Mother. For of her it is written: She shall crush thy head; in her they confide that they also shall walk confidently upon the asp and the basilisk, and shall trample under foot the lion and the dragon. For neither doth it seem possible that he should perish of whom it has been said by Christ unto the Virgin: Behold thy son, provided that he himself also hear not with deaf ear what Christ has said unto him: Behold thy Mother.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
O Blessed Virgin * Mary: thou Mother of grace, thou hope of the world, hear us thy children crying unto thee.
