[Officium]
Saint Bernard, Abbot and Doctor of the Church
(sed rubrica 1570 aut rubrica 1617)
St. Bernard of Clairvaux, Abbot

[Name]
Bernard

[Lectio4]
Bernard was born of an honourable family at Fontaines in Burgundy (in 1091). As a youth, on account of his outstanding beauty, he was vehemently solicited by women, yet he could never be moved from his purpose of cultivating chastity. That he might escape these temptations of the devil, at the age of twenty-two years he determined to enter the Cistercian monastery, whence this Order began, and which at that time was flourishing in sanctity. When Bernard’s resolve became known, his brothers strove with the utmost effort to deter him from his purpose: wherein he himself proved more eloquent and more successful. For he so drew them and many others unto his own mind that with him thirty young men took up the same religious life. As a monk he was so given to fasting that as often as food was to be taken, so often he seemed to undergo torment. In vigils also and in prayers he exercised himself wonderfully: and cultivating Christian poverty, he led as it were a heavenly life upon earth, alien from all care and desire of perishable things.

[Lectio5]
Humility, mercy, and kindness shone forth in him: but he was so given to contemplation that he scarcely used his senses except for the offices of piety: in which nevertheless he excelled with the praise of prudence. Occupied in this pursuit, he refused the bishoprics of Genoa and Milan and others that were offered unto him, professing himself unworthy of the charge of so great an office. Being made Abbot of Clairvaux, (in 1115) he built monasteries in many places, in which the outstanding institution and discipline of Bernard long flourished. At Rome, when the monastery of Saints Vincent and Anastasius had been restored by Pope Innocent the Second, he [Bernard] set over it as abbot him who afterwards was Pope Eugenius the Third, unto whom he also sent the book "On Consideration".

[Lectio6]
Moreover he wrote many things, in which it appeareth that he was instructed rather by doctrine handed down from on high than by labour acquired. In the highest praise of the virtues, being entreated by the greatest princes concerning the settling of their controversies and the ordering of ecclesiastical affairs, he came often into Italy. He also notably assisted Pope Innocent the Second in confuting the schism of Peter Leonis, both with the emperor and with Henry king of England, and in the council assembled at Pisa. Finally, at the age of sixty-three years, he fell asleep in the Lord, and, illustrious by miracles, was numbered among the saints by Pope Alexander the Third. But Pope Pius the Eighth, by the counsel of the Sacred Congregation of Rites, declared and confirmed Saint Bernard a Doctor of the universal Church, and commanded the Mass and Office of Doctors to be recited by all, and granted perpetual plenary indulgences yearly to those visiting the churches of the Cistercian Order on the feast day of this saint.
(sed rubrica 1570 aut rubrica 1617 omititur)

[Lectio94]
Bernard was born of an honourable family at Fontaines in Burgundy, and from childhood cultivated chastity most diligently. At the age of twenty-two years, having entered the Cistercian monastery, whence the Order of this name began, he also drew his brothers and many others to take up the same religious life. In vigils and prayers he exercised himself wonderfully. Humility, mercy, kindness, prudence, and an assiduous study of meditating upon heavenly things shone forth in him. Being made Abbot of Clairvaux, he built monasteries in many places, where his outstanding institution and discipline long flourished. Moreover he wrote many things, in which it appeareth that he was instructed rather by doctrine handed down from on high than by labour acquired. Being entreated by great princes concerning the settling of their controversies and the ordering of ecclesiastical affairs, he came often into Italy. He notably assisted Pope Innocent the Second in confuting the schism of Peter Leonis. At the age of sixty-three years, having deserved most well of the Church, he fell asleep in the Lord.
&teDeum
