[Officium]
Saint Bartholomew the Apostle

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, who hast granted the venerable and holy joy of this day in the festival of Thy blessed Apostle Bartholomew: grant unto Thy Church, we beseech Thee, both to love what he believed, and to preach what he taught.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Bartholomew the Apostle, a Galilean, when he had gone into nearer India, which had fallen to him by lot in the distribution of the world for the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, preached unto those nations the coming of the Lord Jesus according to the Gospel of Saint Matthew. But when in that province he had converted very many unto Jesus Christ, having endured many labours and calamities, he came into greater Armenia.

[Lectio5]
There he brought Polymius the king and his wife, and moreover twelve cities, unto the Christian faith. Which thing stirred up great envy against him among the priests of that nation. For they so inflamed Astyages, the brother of king Polymius, against the Apostle, that he commanded the skin to be cruelly torn from the living Bartholomew, and his head to be cut off; in which martyrdom he rendered up his soul unto God.

[Lectio6_]
His body was buried at Albanum, which is a city of greater Armenia, where he had suffered. Which afterwards was carried to the island of Lipara, and thence translated to Beneventum. At last it was brought to Rome by the Emperor Otto the Third, and was placed in the island of the Tiber, in the church dedicated unto God under his name.

[Lectio6_T]
At Rome the feast day is kept on the eighth of the Kalends of September [25th of August], and for the eight following days that basilica is celebrated with a great throng of the people.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 6:12-19
At that time: Jesus went out into a mountain to pray, and He passed the whole night in the prayer of God. And when day was come, He called His disciples. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Ambrose the Bishop (of Milan.)
!Book 5 of the Commentary on Luke, chapter 6, after the beginning
All who are great, all who are sublime, ascend the mountain. For the prophet does not say to just anyone: “Get thee up into the high mountain, thou that bringest good tidings to Sion: lift up thy voice with strength, thou that bringest good tidings to Jerusalem.” Ascend thou into this mountain not with bodily footsteps, but with more sublime deeds, and follow Christ, that thou thyself mayest be a mountain: for “mountains are round about Him.” Wherefore thou wilt find in the Gospel that only the disciples ascended the mountain with the Lord. The Lord prays, therefore, not to entreat for Himself, but to obtain for me. For although the Father has placed all things in the power of the Son; yet the Son, in order to fulfill the form of man, considers that the Father must be entreated for us, because He is our advocate.

[Lectio8]
“And He was,” it says, “spending the night in the prayer of God.” A model is given to thee, O Christian, a form is prescribed which thou oughtest to imitate. For what is it fitting for thee to do for thy salvation, when Christ spends the whole night in prayer for thee? What is it fitting for thee to do, when thou wishest to undertake some duty of piety, when Christ, about to send the Apostles, prayed first, and prayed alone? Nor anywhere else, if I am not mistaken, is He found to have prayed with the Apostles; everywhere He entreats alone. For the counsel of God is not contained by human desires, nor can anyone be a partaker of the interior things of Christ.

[Lectio9]
“He called,” it says, “His disciples, and He chose twelve of them,” whom He might destine as sowers of the faith to propagate the help of human salvation throughout the world. At the same time observe the heavenly counsel: He did not choose any wise men, nor rich men, nor nobles to direct, but fishermen and publicans; lest He should seem to have won them over by worldly prudence, or bought them with riches, or drawn any to His grace by the authority of power and nobility; that the reason of Truth, not the charms of disputation, might prevail.
&teDeum
