[Officium]
Saint Philip Benizi, Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who through blessed Philip Thy Confessor didst bestow upon us an outstanding example of humility: grant unto Thy servants, by imitating him, to despise the prosperity of the world, and ever to seek the things of heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Philip, born at Florence of the noble family of the Benizi, already from the cradle gave indication of future holiness. For scarcely had he entered the fifth month of his age when he wonderfully loosed his tongue into speech, and exhorted his mother to bestow an alms upon the Servants of the Mother of God. As a youth, while at Paris he joined the study of letters with the ardour of piety, he inflamed very many unto the desire of the heavenly country. Having returned to his fatherland, and being called by a singular vision of the most blessed Virgin into the family of her Servants, recently instituted, he withdrew into a cave of Mount Senario, where he led a life harsh indeed by continual chastisement of the body, yet sweet by meditation of the sufferings of Christ the Lord: and thence throughout almost all Europe and a great part of Asia, which he traversed with evangelical preachings, he instituted confraternities of the Seven Dolours of the Mother of God, and propagated his Order by the outstanding example of the virtues.

[Lectio5]
Vehemently kindled with the ardour of spreading divine charity and the Catholic faith, having been declared, reluctant and unwilling, General of his Order, he sent brethren to preach the Gospel of Christ into Scythia [Russia]: but he himself, hastening through very many cities of Italy, composed the growing discords of the citizens therein, and recalled many unto obedience to the Roman Pontiff; and omitting nothing of zeal for the salvation of others, he brought most abandoned men out of the mire of vices unto penance and the love of Jesus Christ. Most greatly given to prayer, he was often seen to be caught up into ecstasy. But virginity he so cultivated that even unto his last breath he kept it unstained by voluntary and most severe penances.

[Lectio6]
There flourished in him continually a singular mercy toward the poor, but especially when near Camilianum, a village of the Sienese territory, he bestowed upon a naked leper asking an alms the very garment with which he was clothed: which when the man had put on, he was straightway cleansed from the leprosy. When the fame of this miracle had spread far and wide, certain of the cardinals who, Clement the Fourth having died, had assembled at Viterbo to choose a successor, turned their minds unto Philip, whose heavenly prudence also they had clearly known. Which when the man of God had perceived, lest he should by chance be compelled to undergo the burden of pastoral government, he hid himself so long upon Mount Tuniatum until Gregory the Tenth had been declared Supreme Pontiff: where by his prayers he obtained for the baths the power of healing diseases, which even today are called the baths of Saint Philip. At last at Todi, in the year one thousand two hundred and eighty-five, in the embrace of Christ the Lord hanging from the cross, which he was wont to call his book, he most holily departed from this life. At his tomb the blind received sight, the lame their gait, the dead life. Shining with these and many other signs, Clement the Tenth, Supreme Pontiff, enrolled him in the number of the saints.

[Lectio94]
Philip, born at Florence of the noble family of the Benizi, was called by a singular vision of the most blessed Virgin into the family of her Servants, recently instituted. First he withdrew into a cave of Mount Senario, where he led a life harsh indeed by continual chastisement of the body, yet sweet by meditation of the sufferings of Christ the Lord; thereafter throughout almost all Europe and a great part of Asia he instituted confraternities of the Seven Dolours of the Mother of God. Having been declared unwilling General of his Order, vehemently kindled with the ardour of divine charity, hastening through very many cities of Italy, he composed the growing discords of the citizens therein, recalled many unto obedience to the Roman Pontiff, and brought most abandoned men unto penance. At last at Todi, in the year one thousand two hundred and eighty-five, in the embrace of Christ the Lord hanging from the cross, which he was wont to call his book, he most holily departed from this life. Clement the Tenth, Supreme Pontiff, enrolled him in the number of the saints.
&teDeum
