[Officium]
Saint Jane Frances Frémiot de Chantal, Widow;Duplex

[Oratio]
Almighty and merciful God, who didst grant unto blessed Jane Frances, inflamed with Thy love, an admirable fortitude of spirit through all the paths of life in the way of perfection, and who didst will through her to illustrate Thy Church with a new offspring: grant by her merits and prayers; that we who, conscious of our infirmity, confide in Thy power, may by the help of heavenly grace overcome all things adverse unto us.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
@Commune/C7::s/N\./Jane Frances/

[Lectio4]
Jane Frances Frémiot de Chantal was born at Dijon in Burgundy of most illustrious lineage, (on the 23rd day of January, in the year 1575.) and from her earliest age she gave not obscure signs of outstanding sanctity. For they report that when scarcely five years old she confuted with precocious argumentation beyond her age a certain Calvinist nobleman, and when he gave her a little present she put immediately put it into the fire, saying "Behold how heretics will burn in hell for refusing Faith in Christ when He speaketh!". Bereft of her mother, she committed herself to the protection of the Virgin Mother of God, and rejected from herself a maidservant who was alluring her unto the love of the world. Expressing nothing childish in her manners, abhorring the delights of the age, and panting after martyrdom, she earnestly applied herself unto religion and piety. Being given in marriage (at twenty years of age,) by her father unto the Baron de Chantal, she gave herself to the cultivation of all the virtues, striving to imbue her children, servants, and others subject unto her with the doctrine of the faith and good manners. With profuse liberality she relieved the want of the poor, the provision being not rarely multiplied from on high: whereby it came to pass that she promised she would never deny an alms unto anyone asking in the name of Christ.

[Lectio5]
Her husband having been slain in the hunt, entering upon the counsel of a more perfect life, she bound herself by a vow of continence. She not only bore the slaughter of her husband with an equal mind, but, as a public testimony of the pardon granted, she, conquering herself, chose to take the son of the slayer from the sacred font [as Godmother]. Content with a moderate household, with slender food and clothing, she converted precious garments unto pious uses. Whatever time remained over from domestic cares she expended upon prayers, pious readings, and labour. She could never be brought to enter upon a second marriage, although many [offers] were useful and honourable. But that she might not afterwards be moved from her purpose of observing chastity, having renewed the vow thereof, she engraved the most holy name of Jesus Christ upon her breast with a glowing iron. Burning more ardently day by day with charity, she caused the poor, the abandoned, the sick, and those infected with the most foul diseases to be brought unto her; and she not only received them with hospitality, consoled them, cherished them, but also cleansed their filthy garments, repaired the torn ones, and did not shudder to apply her lips unto the ulcers flowing with foul matter.

[Lectio6]
Being instructed in the divine will by Saint Francis de Sales, whom she used as the moderator of her spirit, she deserted with invincible constancy her own parent, her father-in-law, and finally her very son, whom, even when resisting her vocation, she did not hesitate to tread under foot as she went forth from her house, and she laid the foundations of the sacred institute of the Visitation of Holy Mary. (at Annecy, upon Trinity Sunday 1610.) She kept the laws of that institute most integrally, and was so loving of poverty that she rejoiced even to lack necessities. But of Christian lowliness of mind and obedience, and finally of all the virtues, she showed herself a most perfect exemplar. Disposing herself to higher ascents in her heart, she bound herself by a most arduous vow of always effecting that which she understood to be more perfect. Finally, the sacred institute of the Visitation having been spread far and wide chiefly by her labour, the sisters having been stirred unto piety and charity by word, example, and writings also filled with divine wisdom, being filled with merits, and having duly received the sacraments, she departed unto the Lord at Moulins, in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-one, on the thirteenth day of December; and Saint Vincent de Paul, being far distant, beheld her soul along with the soul of Saint Francis de Sales coming to meet her, as she was being borne into the heavens. Her body was afterwards translated unto Annecy: and Benedict the Fourteenth added her, famous by miracles before and after death, unto the blessed, but Clement the Thirteenth, Supreme Pontiff, unto the catalogue of the saints. But Clement the Fourteenth, Supreme Pontiff, commanded her feast to be celebrated by the universal Church on the twelfth day before the Kalends of September. [21st of August]

[Lectio94]
Jane Frances Frémiot de Chantal was born at Dijon in Burgundy of most illustrious lineage. While still a girl, being bereft of her mother, she committed herself to the protection of the Virgin Mother of God. Being given in marriage by her father unto the Baron de Chantal, referring most excellently unto the valiant woman, she was made all things unto all. Her husband having been slain in the hunt, she bound herself by a vow of continence and, conquering herself, did not hesitate to take the son of the slayer from the sacred font. But that she might not afterwards be moved from her purpose of observing chastity, having renewed the vow, she engraved the most holy name of Jesus Christ upon her breast with a glowing iron. Being instructed in the divine will by Saint Francis de Sales, whom she used as the moderator of her spirit, she laid the foundations of the sacred institute of the Visitation of holy Mary, which she spread far and wide. When finally she had bound herself by a vow of always effecting that which she understood to be more perfect, being filled with merits, she departed unto the Lord at Moulins, in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-one, on the thirteenth day of December, and was added by Clement the Thirteenth unto the catalogue of the Saints.
&teDeum
