[Rank]
Seventh Day Within the Octave of the Assumption;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/08-15

[Lectio1]
De Canticis Canticorum
!Song 7:1-5
What shalt thou see in the Sulamitess but the companies of camps? Chorus. How beautiful are thy steps in shoes, O prince’s daughter! The joints of thy thighs are like jewels, that are made by the hand of a skilful workman. Thy navel is like a round bowl never wanting cups. Thy belly is like a heap of wheat, set about with lilies. Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins. Thy neck is as a tower of ivory. Thine eyes like the fishpools in Hesebon, which are in the gate of the daughter of the multitude. Thy nose is as the tower of Libanus, that looketh toward Damascus. Thy head is like Carmel: and the hairs of thy head as the purple of the king bound in the channels.

[Lectio2]
!Song 7:6-13
How beautiful art thou, and how comely, my dearest, in delights! Thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters of grapes. I said: I will go up into the palm tree, and will take hold of the fruit thereof: and thy breasts shall be as the clusters of the vine: and the odour of thy mouth like apples. Thy throat like the best wine, worthy for my beloved to drink, and for his lips and his teeth to ruminate. The Bride. I to my beloved, and his turning is towards me. Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the field, let us abide in the villages. Let us get up early to the vineyards, let us see if the vineyard flourish, if the flowers be ready to bring forth fruits, if the pomegranates flourish: there will I give thee my breasts. The mandrakes give a smell. In our gates are all fruits: the new and the old, my beloved, I have kept for thee.

[Lectio3]
!Song 8:1-4
Who shall give thee to me for my brother, sucking the breasts of my mother, that I may find thee without, and kiss thee, and now no man may despise me? I will take hold of thee, and bring thee into my mother’s house: there thou shalt teach me, and I will give thee a cup of spiced wine and new wine of my pomegranates. His left hand under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me. The Bridegroom. I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you stir not up, nor awake my beloved, till she please.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Bernard the Abbot (of Clairvaux.)
!Serm. 1 on the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary
The Virgin this day ascending glorious into the heavens hath without doubt heaped up with abundant increases the joys of the citizens above. For this is she whose voice of salutation maketh even those to exult in joy whom the maternal bowels still enclose. But if the soul of the little one not yet born was melted when Mary spoke, what think we was that exultation of the heavenly ones, when they merited both to hear her voice, and to see her face, and to enjoy her blessed presence? But unto us, most dearly beloved, what occasion of solemnity in her Assumption, what cause of gladness, what matter of greater joy? The whole world is illuminated by the presence of Mary, so much so that even the heavenly country itself shineth more brightly, irradiated by the splendour of the virginal lamp.

[Lectio5]
But who is sufficient to think also of that, how gloriously this day the Queen of the world went forth, and with how great an affection of devotion the whole multitude of the heavenly legions came forth to meet her; with what canticles she was led unto the throne of glory; with how placid a countenance, with how serene a face, with what divine embraces she was received by the Son, and exalted above every creature, with that honour whereof so great a Mother was worthy, with that glory which so greatly became the Son? Happy altogether were the kisses impressed upon the lips of the suckling, upon whom the Mother applauded in her virginal bosom. But shall we not judge happier those which this day in the blessed salutation she received from the mouth of Him that sitteth at the right hand of the Father, when she ascended unto the throne of glory, singing the nuptial song, and saying: Let Him kiss me with the kiss of His mouth?

[Lectio6]
Who shall declare the generation of Christ and the Assumption of Mary? For as much grace as she obtained upon earth above the rest, so much singular glory doth she obtain also in the heavens. But if eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man, what things God hath prepared for them that love Him, what He prepared for her that bare Him, and what is certain unto all for her that loved above all, who shall speak? Happy clearly is Mary, and multiply happy, whether when she receiveth the Saviour, or when she is received with the Saviour: in both a wondrous dignity, the virginity of the Mother; in both an embraceable condescension of majesty.
