[Officium]
Saint Joseph Calasanctius, Confessor  

[Oratio]
O God, who through Saint Joseph Thy Confessor didst deign to provide a new help for Thy Church for the instructing of youth in the spirit of understanding and of piety: grant, we beseech Thee, that by his example and intercession we may so do and teach that we may obtain eternal rewards.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Joseph Calasanctius of the Mother of God, born of a noble family at Petralta in Aragon, (on the 15th day of September, in the year of Christ 1556.) from his tender years gave indications of his future charity toward boys and of their instruction. For while yet a little child he would gather them unto himself and instruct them in the mysteries of the faith and in sacred prayers. Having been excellently instructed in human and divine letters, when he was applying himself to theological studies at Valencia, having strongly overcome the allurements of a noble and powerful woman, he preserved inviolate by a notable victory the virginity which he had vowed unto God. Having been made a priest according to his vow, having been taken into a share of the labour by several bishops in the kingdoms of New Castile, Aragon, and Catalonia, he surpassed the expectation of all, the evil manners having been everywhere amended, ecclesiastical discipline restored, and bloody enmities and factions marvellously extinguished. But having been frequently admonished by a heavenly vision and by the voice of God, he set out for Rome.

[Lectio5]
In the City [of Rome], afflicting his body with the greatest austerity of life, with watchings and fastings, he spent days and nights in prayers and in the contemplation of heavenly things, being accustomed almost every night to visit the seven churches of the same City: which custom he kept for many years thereafter. Having given his name to pious sodalities, it is marvellous with how great ardour he would relieve the poor, especially the sick, or those detained in prisons, with alms and every office of piety. When a pestilence was laying waste the City [of Rome], together with Saint Camillus he was driven by so great an impulse of charity that, besides the abundant helps bestowed upon the sick poor, he would even carry upon his own shoulders the very bodies of the dead to be buried. But when he had received from heaven that he was destined for the forming of youths, especially the poor, in the spirit of understanding and of piety, he founded the Order of Clerics Regular of the Poor of the Mother of God of the Pious Schools, who by their own institute should profess a special care concerning the instruction of boys: and this Order, greatly approved by Clement the Eighth, by Paul the Fifth, and by other Supreme Pontiffs, he marvellously propagated in a short time through very many provinces and kingdoms of Europe. But in this he endured so many labours, and bore so many hardships with an invincible mind, that by the voice of all he was called a miracle of fortitude and an example of holy Job.

[Lectio6]
Although he was set over the whole Order, and applied all his strength unto the salvation of souls, yet he never intermitted instructing the boys, especially the poorer ones, whose schools he was accustomed to sweep, and to accompany them home. In this office of the greatest patience and humility he persevered fifty-two years, even in infirm health: worthy therefore that God should illustrate him with frequent miracles in the presence of his disciples, and that the most blessed Virgin with the Child Jesus should appear to him, blessing them while they prayed. Meanwhile, having repudiated the most ample dignities [preferments], he was famous for the gift of prophecy, of knowing the secrets of hearts and things absent [distant events], and for miracles, and having been honoured with frequent sights of the Mother of God, whom he himself from infancy had honoured with singular piety and had especially recommended to his own disciples, and [honoured with sight] of other heavenly ones. When he had foretold the day of his death and the restoration and increase of the Order which then had almost been overthrown, in the ninety-second year of his age he fell asleep in the Lord at Rome, on the eighth of the Kalends of September [25th of August], in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-eight. His heart and tongue after a century were found entire and incorrupt. Also he himself, being illustrated by God also after death with many signs, was first adorned with the Cultus of the Blessed by [Pope] Benedict the Fourteenth, and thereafter was solemnly enrolled among the Saints by [Pope] Clement the Thirteenth.

[Lectio94]
Joseph Calasanctius, born at Petralta in Aragon, while yet a little child would gather his equals unto himself and instruct them in the mysteries of the faith and in sacred prayers. Having been made a priest according to his vow, afflicting his body with the greatest austerity of life, with watchings and fastings, he spent days and nights in prayer and in the contemplation of heavenly things. When he had received from heaven that he was destined for the forming of youths, especially the poor, in the spirit of understanding and of piety, he founded the Order of Clerics Regular of the Poor of the Mother of God of the Pious Schools, who by their own institute should profess a special care concerning the instruction of boys. Having therefore endured innumerable labours and hardships with an invincible mind, in the ninety-second year of his age he died in the Lord, on the eighth of the Kalends of September, in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-eight.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-5
At that time: The disciples came to Jesus, saying: Who, thinkest Thou, is the greater in the kingdom of heaven? And the rest.  
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom.
!On chapter 18 of Matthew, Homily 60. 
Take heed, saith Jesus, that ye despise not one of these little ones, for I say unto you, that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of My Father and that for their sake am I come, and this is the will of My Father. Hereby the Lord stirreth us up to guard and save these little ones. Thou seest how mighty are the walls which He raiseth to protect little children, and how great thought and care He hath lest they should be lost, threatening on the one hand the uttermost punishment against whosoever shall offend one of these little ones which believe in Him, (6) and promising on the other hand, the highest reward to whosoever shall receive one such little child in His Name, (5) and this His teaching He giveth both in His Own, and in His Father's Name.

[Lectio8]
Let us therefore take example by the Lord, and let us leave nothing undone for the good of any of our brethren, even for such as seem to us the least and lowliest, but if there be any need that we should serve any, low and outcast though he be, let us serve him though the thing look hard to us and calling for a great deal of work, let such things, I pray, be looked on as light and easy if they be required for our neighbour's salvation, for of such price and such care did God count his soul to be worth, that He spared not to purchase it, even His Own Son. (Rom. viii. 32.)

[Lectio9]
If it be not enough for our salvation that we should ourselves live well, but we must also seek the salvation of others, what shall we answer, if we neither live well ourselves, nor exhort others What hope that we shall be saved is then left to us What more important task is there than to train up minds, and teach to the young how to live He that is skilled to mould well the minds of children I reckon a nobler workman than any painter or sculptor, or such like artist.
&teDeum
