[Officium]
Saint Augustine, Bishop and Confessor and Doctor of the Church

[Name]
Augustine

[Oratio]
Be present at our supplications, almighty God: and, unto those to whom Thou grantest the confidence of hoping for Thy pity, grant kindly, through the intercession of blessed Augustine Thy Confessor and Pontiff, the effect of Thy wonted mercy.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Augustine, born at Tagaste in Africa of honourable parents, (upon the 13th day of November, in the year of our Lord 354.) and as a boy far surpassing his equals in docility of mind, in a short time excelled them all in learning. As a youth, while he was at Carthage, he fell into the heresy of the Manichees. Afterwards, having set out for Rome, and from thence been sent to Milan to teach rhetoric, when he was there a frequent hearer of the bishop Ambrose, kindled by his means with zeal for the Catholic faith, at the age of thirty-three he was baptized by him. [on Holy Saturday, 387] Having returned into Africa, [in 388] joining sanctity of life with religion, he was made priest by Valerius, bishop of Hippo, who was of known holiness. [about the end of 390.] At which time he founded a family of religious, with whom, eating in common and living the same manner of life together, he most diligently instructed them in the discipline of the apostolic life and doctrine. But when the heresy of the Manichees was flourishing, he began to inveigh more vehemently against it, and confuted Fortunatus the heresiarch.

[Lectio5]
Moved by this piety of Augustine, Valerius took him as helper in the episcopal office. [as adjutant bishop in December 395, and dying the next year] Nothing was more humble than he, nothing more continent. His bed and clothing were moderate, his table plain, which he always seasoned either with sacred reading or with disputation. He was of such kindness toward the poor that, when there was no other means, he would break the sacred vessels to relieve their want. He avoided the companionship and familiarity of women, and among them of his sister and of his brother’s daughter, for he was accustomed to say, that although no scandal might be suspected in the case of such near kinswomen, yet their female friends were of such like that might give rise to scandal. [by being at their house]. He made no end of preaching the word of God, save when oppressed by a grievous illness. Continually pursuing heretics both in person and in writings, and suffering them to settle in no place, he in great part freed Africa from the error of the Manichees, the Donatists, the Pelagians, and of other heretics besides.

[Lectio6]
He wrote so many things piously, subtly, and copiously, that he most greatly illustrated Christian doctrine. Whom he is pre-eminent of those especially who followe afterwards and taught theological discipline by his methods and reasoning. While the Vandals were laying waste Africa with war, and were already besieging Hippo for the third month, he fell into a fever. And so, understanding that his departure from life was at hand, he read with abundant tears the Psalms of David which pertain to penance, set before his eyes. He was wont moreover to say that no one, even though he were conscious to himself of no crime, ought to suffer himself to depart from life without penance. There, with all his faculties, while fixed in prayer, the brethren standing by, whom he had exhorted unto charity, piety, and all virtues, he departed into heaven. [On the 28th of August, 430] He lived seventy-six years, nearly thirty-six in the episcopate. Whose body, first carried into Sardinia, thereafter redeemed at a great price by Luitprand, king of the Lombards, was translated to Pavia, and there honourably laid.

[Lectio94]
Augustine, born at Tagaste in Africa of honourable parents, in a short time excelled all his equals in learning. As a youth, while he was at Carthage, he fell into the heresy of the Manichees. Afterwards, having set out for Rome, and from thence been sent to Milan to teach rhetoric, when he was there, at the persuasion of Monica his most pious mother, a frequent hearer of the bishop Ambrose, kindled by his means with zeal for the Catholic faith, at the age of thirty-three he was baptized by him. Having returned into Africa, joining sanctity of life with religion, he was made priest by Valerius, bishop of Hippo of known holiness. At which time he founded a family of religious, with whom, using common fare and the same manner of life, he most diligently instructed them in the discipline of the apostolic life and doctrine. Moved by this piety of Augustine, Valerius took him as helper in the episcopal office. He wrote many things piously, subtly, and copiously, that he might overthrow heresies and illustrate Christian doctrine. While the Vandals were laying waste Africa with war and were already besieging Hippo for the third month, seized with fever, he departed unto the Lord, in the seventy-sixth year of his age. His body, first translated into Sardinia, thereafter to Pavia, is there honourably venerated.
&teDeum
