[Rank]
Octave of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex;;3;;vide Sancti/08-15

[Lectio1]
Lesson from the book of Canticles
!Song 8:5-6
Who is this that cometh up from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her beloved? Under the apple tree I raised thee up: there thy mother was corrupted, there she was violated that bare thee. Set me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thine arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is hard as hell: the lamps thereof are lamps of fire and of flames.

[Lectio2]
!Song 8:7-9
Many waters could not quench charity, neither shall the floods overwhelm it. If a man should give all the substance of his house for love, he shall despise it as nothing. Our sister is little, and hath no breasts. What shall we do to our sister in the day when she is to be spoken to? If she be a wall, let us build upon it bulwarks of silver: if she be a door, let us join it together with boards of cedar.

[Lectio3]
!Song 8:10-14
I am a wall, and my breasts are as a tower: since I am become in his presence as one finding peace. The peaceable had a vineyard in that which hath people: he delivered it to the keepers; a man bringeth a thousand pieces of silver for the fruit thereof. My vineyard is before me. A thousand are thine, O peaceable, and two hundred for them that keep the fruit thereof. Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the friends hearken: make me hear thy voice. Flee, my beloved, and be like to the roe and to the young hart upon the mountains of spices.

[Lectio4]
From the Sermon of Saint Bernard the Abbot
!Serm. 4 on the Assumption, about the middle
There is indeed nothing that delighteth me more, nor is there anything that terrifieth me more, than to have discourse concerning the glory of the Virgin Mary. For behold, if I shall praise virginity in her, many virgins after her seem to present themselves unto me. If I shall preach humility, there will perhaps be found even a few who (taught by her Son) have been made meek and humble of heart. If I shall wish to magnify the multitude of her mercy, there are some men of mercy, and women also. There is one thing in which she hath neither been seen to have a like before her, nor to have one following: having the joys of a mother with the honour of virginity. It is the privilege of Mary; it shall not be given unto another: it is singular, but straightway also it is found unutterable. As if they should say more openly: How great is this woman? or whence unto her ascending from the desert such abundance of delights? For neither are equal delights found even in us, whom the stream of the river maketh glad in the city of the Lord, who are given to drink of the glory of pleasure from the face of glory.

[Lectio5]
Nevertheless not this only, if thou attend diligently, but the other virtues also thou wilt find altogether singular in Mary, which seemed to be common. For what purity, even angelic, dareth to be compared unto that virginity, which was worthy to become the sanctuary of the Holy Ghost, and the dwelling-place of the Son of God? But how great, and how precious, the virtue of humility with such purity, with such innocence, with a conscience altogether without offence, nay rather with the fullness of so great grace? Whence unto thee humility, and such humility, O blessed one? Worthy clearly that the Lord should look upon her, whose beauty the King should desire, by whose most sweet fragrance He should be drawn from that eternal resting-place of the paternal bosom. Who is this that ascendeth from under the sun, where there is nothing but labour and sorrow, and affliction of spirit, flowing with spiritual delights?

[Lectio6]
Behold already with what desires we have been able we have escorted thee ascending unto thy Son, and have followed at least from afar, O blessed Virgin. Be it of thy piety to make known unto the world that grace which thou hast found with God, by obtaining through thy holy prayers pardon for the guilty, healing for the sick, strength for the little of heart, consolation for the afflicted, help for those in peril, and deliverance. On this day also of solemnity and joy, may Jesus Christ thy Son, our Lord, who is God blessed above all things for ever, through thee, O clement Queen, bestow the gifts of His grace upon His little servants who invoke the most sweet name of Mary with praise. Amen.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:38-42
At that time: Jesus entered into a certain town: and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her house. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Bernard the Abbot
!Serm. 2 on the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Why do we say that He entered into a town? He entered even into the most narrow lodging of the virginal womb. Finally a certain woman also received Him into her house. Happy the woman whose house, the Saviour being received, was found clean indeed, but clearly not empty. For who shall have said "she is empty", her whom the Angel saluteth full of grace? Nor this only, but he also asserteth that the Holy Ghost shall yet come upon her. Unto what, thinkest thou, unless that He may fill her even superabundantly? Unto what, unless that, being already full for herself by the Spirit coming, by the same coming upon her she may become for us also superfull and overflowing?

[Lectio8]
Let the Saviour therefore enter the house, and frequently visit her, whom the penitent Lazarus cleanseth, Martha adorneth, and Mary filleth, given over unto interior contemplation. But perhaps some curious person may ask why in the present Gospel reading no mention at all is made of Lazarus. I judge indeed that not even this is at variance from the proposed similitude. For the Spirit, willing the virginal house to be understood, not incongruously kept silence concerning penance, which indeed accompanieth evil. Far be it that this house should ever be said to have had anything of its own defilement, that consequently the broom of Lazarus should be sought in it [to sweep out defilement].
