[Officium]
Saint Louis, King of France, Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who didst transfer blessed Louis Thy Confessor from an earthly kingdom unto the glory of the heavenly kingdom: grant, we beseech Thee, by his merits and intercession, that we may be made partakers of Jesus Christ the King of kings, Thy Son.
$Qui tecum

[Lectio4]
Louis the Ninth, king of France, twelve years of age, having lost his father, and educated in the most holy discipline by his mother Blanche, when he was already spending the twentieth year in the kingdom, fell into a sickness: at which time he thought of recovering the possession of Jerusalem. Wherefore when he had recovered, he received the standard from the bishop of Paris: thereafter crossing the sea with a great army, in the first battle he put the Saracens to flight. But when from pestilence a great multitude of the soldiers had perished, he himself was overcome and taken captive.

[Lectio5]
Afterwards, affairs having been composed with the Saracens, the king and the army were set free and dismissed. Having remained five years in the East, he redeemed very many Christians from the servitude of the barbarians, and converted many also of the infidels unto the faith of Christ: moreover he repaired certain cities of the Christians at his own expense. Meanwhile his mother departed this life: wherefore he was compelled to return home, where he gave himself wholly unto the offices of piety.

[Lectio6]
He built many monasteries and hospices for the poor: by beneficence he relieved the needy: frequently he visited the sick, unto whom he not only supplied all things at his own expense, but also ministered with his hands what was needful. He used common clothing, and continually afflicted his body with hair-cloth and fasting. (In the year 1270) When he had crossed over a second time, about to wage war upon the Saracens, and had already pitched camp in their sight, he departed by pestilence in that prayer: I will come into Thy house; I will worship towards Thy holy temple, and I will confess to Thy name. (Pss. v, 8; cxxxvii, 2.) His body was afterwards translated to Lutetia of the Parisians, which is kept and venerated in the celebrated church of Saint Denis; but the head in the sacred building of the Sainte-Chapelle. He himself, famous for miracles, was enrolled in the number of the saints by Pope Boniface the Eighth.

[Lectio94]
Louis the Ninth, king of France, educated in the most holy discipline of his mother Blanche, crossing the sea with a great army for the recovering of the possession of Jerusalem, in the first battle put the Saracens to flight. But when a great multitude of the soldiers had perished from pestilence, he himself was overcome and taken captive. Affairs having been composed, he was set free and dismissed. In the East he redeemed very many Christians from the servitude of the barbarians, and converted many also of the infidels unto the faith of Christ. Having returned into France, he built many monasteries and hospices for the poor; by beneficence he relieved the needy, frequently he visited the sick, and ministered unto them; he used common clothing, and continually afflicted his body with hair-cloth and fasting. When he had crossed over a second time, about to wage war upon the Saracens, and had already pitched camp in their sight, he departed by pestilence in that prayer: I will come into Thy house, I will worship towards Thy holy temple, and I will confess to Thy name.
&teDeum
