[Officium]
On the Beheading of Saint John the Baptist

[Ant Vespera]
For Herod had laid hold of * and bound John, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias.
My lord the king, * give me in a dish the head of John the Baptist.  
To the dancing girl * her mother commanded: Ask for nothing else, save the head of John.
John was rebuking * Herod for the sake of Herodias, whom he had taken as wife from his brother Philip. 
Give me in a dish * the head of John the Baptist. And the king was sorry because of his oath.

[Ant 1]
Herod sending * an executioner, commanded that the head of John should be cut off in the prison. Which being heard, his disciples came, and took up his body, and laid it in a tomb.

[Oratio]
We beseech Thee, O Lord, that the venerable festival of Saint John the Baptist, Thy Precursor and Martyr, may afford us the effect of saving help.
$Qui vivis

[Responsory1]
R. Herod the king stretched forth his hands, and laid hold of John, and bound him in prison, because he feared him for the sake of Herodias, 
* Whom he had taken as wife from his brother Philip.  
V. John was rebuking Herod for the sake of Herodias.
R. Whom he had taken as wife from his brother Philip.

[Responsory2]
R. John the Baptist was rebuking Herod
* For the sake of Herodias, whom he had taken as wife from his living brother.
V. Herod sending an executioner, commanded that the head of John should be cut off in the prison.
R. For the sake of Herodias, whom he had taken as wife from his living brother.

[Responsory3_]
R. To the dancing girl her mother commanded:
* Ask for nothing else, save the head of John. * And the king was sorry because of his oath and because of them that sat with him.  
V. The girl said to her mother: What shall I ask? But she said.
R. Ask for nothing else, save the head of John.  
&Gloria
R. And the king was sorry because of his oath and because of them that sat with him.

[Lectio4]
From the book of Saint Ambrose the Bishop on Virgins
!Book 3, after the beginning
Since the memory of the blessed John the Baptist must not be passed over lightly, it is of interest that we should consider who was killed, by whom, for what cause, in what manner, and at what time. A just man is slain by adulterers, and the penalty for a capital crime is turned by the guilty upon the judge. Furthermore, the death of a Prophet is the reward of a dancing girl. Finally (a thing which even all barbarians have been accustomed to abhor), the edict of consummate cruelty is brought forth amidst banquets and feasts; and from the banquet to the prison, and from the prison to the banquet, the dutiful execution of this deadly outrage is carried back and forth. How many crimes there are in one wicked deed!

[Lectio5]
Look, thou most bitter king, upon a spectacle worthy of thy banquet. Stretch forth thy right hand, lest anything be lacking to thy cruelty, so that between thy fingers the streams of sacred blood may flow down. And, since hunger could not be satiated by feasts, nor the thirst of unheard-of savagery quenched by cups, drink thou the blood flowing forth from the still-gushing veins of the severed head. Behold thou the eyes, even in death the witnesses of thy crime, turning away from the sight of delights. The eyes are closed not so much by the necessity of death as by the horror of luxury. That golden, bloodless mouth, whose sentence thou couldst not bear, falls silent, and yet is still feared.

[Responsory5]
R. He knew justice, and saw great wonders, and made supplication to the Most High:
* And he was found in the number of the Saints.
V. This is he who despised the life of the world, and attained unto the heavenly kingdoms.
R. And he was found in the number of the Saints.

[Lectio6]
Behold, O most bitter king, spectacles worthy of thy banquet. Stretch forth thy right hand, that nothing of thy savagery may be wanting; that amid thy fingers streams of the sacred blood may flow down. And, since hunger could not be satisfied with banquets, nor the thirst of unheard-of savagery quenched with cups; drink the blood flowing from the still gushing veins of the severed head. Behold the eyes, witnesses even in death itself of thy crime, turning away from the sight of the delights. The eyes are closed not so much by the necessity of death as by the horror of luxury. That golden mouth, now bloodless, whose sentence thou couldst not bear, is silent, and is still feared.

[Responsory6]
R. The Lord made him honourable, and kept him from his enemies, and protected him from deceivers:
* And He gave him everlasting glory.
V. And He went down with him into the pit, and in bonds He left him not.
R. And He gave him everlasting glory.
&Gloria
R. And He gave him everlasting glory.

[Lectio94]
From the Treatise concerning Virgins, by St. Ambrose the Bishop
_
We must not hurry past the record of blessed Baptist John. We must ask what he was; by whom he was slain; and why and how. He was a righteous man, murdered for his righteousness by adulterers. He was a judge, who suffered condemnation to death by the guilty ones because he had justly judged their guilt. He was the prophet whose death was a fee paid to a dancing-girl for a lascivious dance. And lastly a thing from which even savages would shrink his head was served up as a dish at a banquet. For the order to commit the atrocity was given amid the merriment of a dinner-party; and the servants of the murderer introduced the murder amid the courses of the meal, running from banquet to prison, and from prison to banquet! See how many infamies are contained in this one crime.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Mark
!Mark 6:17-29
At that time: Herod sent and laid hold of John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother, because he had married her. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!Sermon 10 among the New Sermons
When the Holy Gospel was read, a cruel spectacle was set before our eyes: the head of Saint John on a dish, a message of deadly cruelty sent on account of the hatred of truth. A girl dances, and a mother rages; and amidst the wantonness and delights of the banqueters a rash oath is sworn, and impiously, what is sworn is fulfilled. What he himself had foretold was done unto John; for concerning the Lord Jesus Christ he had said: “He must increase, but I must decrease.” The one was decreased in his head, the other increased on the cross. Truth begot hatred. What the holy man of God advised could not be endured with equanimity; who indeed sought the salvation of those whom he so advised. They returned to him evil for good.

[Lectio8]
For what should he say, except that of which he was full? And what should they answer, except that of which they were full? He sowed wheat, but found thorns. He said to the king: “It is not lawful for thee to have the wife of thy brother.” For lust was overcoming the king: he kept with him the forbidden wife of his brother. But nevertheless he so pleased him, that he did not rage against him; he honored him, from whom he heard the truth. But the detestable woman was conceiving a hatred, which she might eventually bring forth at a given time. Now when she was in labor, she brought forth a daughter, a dancing daughter.

[Ant 3_]
The unbelieving king sent * detestable ministers, and commanded that the head of John the Baptist should be cut off.
