[Officium]
Saint Rose of Saint Mary of Lima, Virgin

[Oratio]
O almighty God, bestower of all good things, who didst will that blessed Rose, prevented by the dew of heavenly grace, should flourish among the Indians with the beauty of virginity and patience: grant unto us Thy servants that, running in the odour of her sweetness, we may merit to become a good odour of Christ:
$Qui tecum

[Lectio4]
The first flower of holiness of South America, the virgin Rose, born at Lima of Christian parents (upon the 20th of April, in the year 1586,), soon from the cradle shone with signs of future sanctity. For the countenance of the infant, miraculously transformed into a rose, gave rise to this name: to which afterwards the Virgin Mother of God added a surname, commanding that she should thenceforth be called Rose of Saint Mary. At the age of five she made a vow of perpetual virginity. When older, lest she should be compelled by her parents to marriage, she secretly cut off her own most beautiful locks. Addicted to fasts beyond human measure, she passed entire Lents abstaining from bread, and living daily upon only five grains of a citron.

[Lectio5]
Having assumed the habit of the Third Order of Saint Dominic, she doubled her former austerities of life: she fastened small needles here and there into a long and most rough hair-shirt: under her veil she wore day and night a crown armed inwardly with dense thorns. Pressing the arduous footsteps of Saint Catherine of Siena, she girded her loins with an iron chain wound thrice about. She composed for herself a bed of knotty trunks, and filled their empty joints with fragments of potsherds. She built for herself a most narrow cell in the farthest corner of the garden, where, given to the contemplation of heavenly things, weakening her little body by frequent disciplines, fasting, and vigils, yet invigorated in spirit, she fearlessly crushed and overcame the phantoms of demons, victorious in frequent combat.

[Lectio6]
Direly agitated by the torments of illnesses, the insults of her household, and the bitings of tongues [slander], she still complained that she was not afflicted enough according to her merit. For fifteen years, wasting away most miserably for many hours in desolation of spirit and aridity, she bore with a brave spirit agonies more bitter than any death. Thereafter she began to abound in heavenly delights, to be illumined by visions, and to melt with seraphic ardors. Wondrously familiar, amid continual apparitions, with her guardian Angel, with Saint Catherine of Siena, and with the Virgin Mother of God, she merited to hear these words from Christ: "Rose of My heart, be thou My bride". Finally, happily borne into the paradise of this Bridegroom, (upon the 24th of August 1617, being aged 31 years.) and shining with very many miracles both before and after her death, the Supreme Pontiff Clement the Tenth enrolled her in the catalogue of holy Virgins with a solemn rite.

[Lectio94]
The first flower of holiness of South America, the virgin Rose, born of Christian parents in Lima, soon from her cradle shone with the signs of future holiness; for the face of the infant, wonderfully transfigured into the likeness of a rose, gave occasion for this name. Lest she be forced into marriage by her parents, she secretly cut off her most beautiful hair. Singular was the austerity of her life. Having taken the habit of the Third Order of Saint Dominic, she closely followed the arduous footsteps of Saint Catherine of Siena. Wasting away most miserably in desolation of spirit and aridity for several hours daily over fifteen years, she bravely bore agonies more bitter than any death. Wonderfully familiar with her guardian Angel, Saint Catherine of Siena, and the Virgin Mother of God amid constant apparitions, she merited to hear from Christ these words: "Rose of my heart, be thou my bride." Shining with many miracles before and after her death, Pope Clement the Tenth enrolled her in the catalogue of holy Virgins.
&teDeum
