[Officium]
Saint Raymond Nonnatus, Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who didst make blessed Raymond Thy Confessor wonderful in delivering Thy faithful from the captivity of the impious: grant unto us by his intercession; that, being loosed from the bonds of sins, we may with free minds perform those things which are pleasing unto Thee.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Raymond, surnamed Nonnatus because, contrary to the common law of nature, he was brought forth into the light from the opened side of his dead mother, was born at Portell in Catalonia of pious and noble parents, and from his very infancy gave signs of future sanctity. For, rejecting the sports of childhood and the allurements of the world, he so applied himself to piety that all admired mature virtue in the boy. But as he grew in age, he devoted himself to the study of letters: yet soon, by his father’s command living in the country, he frequently visited a chapel of Saint Nicholas situated within the bounds of Portell, that he might visit the sacred image of the Mother of God, which even now is venerated therein with the highest devotion of the faithful. There, poured forth in prayers, he earnestly besought the very Mother of God that she would deign to adopt him as her son and teach him the way of salvation and the knowledge of the saints.

[Lectio5]
Nor did the most benign Virgin fail his vows. For from her he understood that it would be most pleasing unto her if he should enter the religious Order under the title of Mercy, or of the Mercy of the redemption of captives, which had lately been founded at her suggestion. Having received this admonition, he immediately set out for Barcelona and embraced that institute of so excellent a charity toward his neighbour. Enrolled therefore in the regular militia, he perpetually cultivated the virginity which he had long before consecrated to the blessed Virgin, and shone in the other virtues, especially in charity toward the Christians who under the power of the pagans led a wretched life in captivity. Sent into Africa that he might redeem these, when he had already freed many from servitude, lest, the money being consumed, he should fail others likewise who were in imminent danger of denying the faith, he gave himself as a pledge; but when, inflamed with most ardent desire for the salvation of souls, he converted many Mohammedans to Christ by his discourses, he was cast into close custody by the barbarians, tortured with various torments, and presently, his lips being pierced and closed with an iron lock, he long sustained a cruel martyrdom.

[Lectio6]
On account of these and other things courageously wrought, the fame of his sanctity was spread far and wide. Moved thereby, Gregory the Ninth enrolled Raymond in the most ample college of the Cardinals of the holy Roman Church: but the man of God in that dignity, abhorring all pomp, was always most tenacious of religious humility. But going to Rome, as soon as he reached Cardona, [six miles from Barcelona] being worn out with extreme illness, he asked with most earnest prayers to be fortified with the Sacraments of the Church. And when the sickness grew heavier and the priest delayed longer, he was refreshed with the saving Viaticum by the ministry of Angels, appearing under the form of religious in habits of his Order. Having received which, and having given thanks unto God, he passed unto the Lord on the last Sunday of August, in the year one thousand two hundred and forty. When contention had arisen concerning the place of burial of the dead body, it was enclosed in a chest and placed upon a blind mule, and by the will of God was brought unto the chapel of Saint Nicholas, that it might be buried there where he had laid the first foundations of a holier life. There, a monastery of his Order having been built, he is honoured by the faithful peoples of all Catalonia who flock thither for the sake of vows, glorious with various miracles and signs.

[Lectio94]
Raymond, surnamed Nonnatus because, contrary to the common law of nature, he was brought forth into the light from the opened side of his dead mother, rejecting the sports of childhood and the allurements of the world, so applied himself to piety that all admired mature virtue in the boy. He loved exceedingly the Mother of God, whom he diligently besought. Having entered the religious Order under the title of Mercy or of the mercy of the redemption of captives, he perpetually cultivated the virginity which he had long before consecrated to the blessed Virgin, and shone in the other virtues, especially in charity toward the Christians who under the power of the pagans led a wretched life. Gregory the Ninth enrolled him among the Cardinal fathers: but the man of God, in that dignity abhorring all pomp, was always most tenacious of religious humility. At Cardona, worn out with extreme illness and fortified with the sacraments of the Church, he passed unto the Lord on the last Sunday of August, in the year one thousand two hundred and forty.
&teDeum
