[Officium]
Saint Pius X, Pope and Confessor

[Oratio]
O God, who for the defence of the Catholic faith and the restoring of all things in Christ didst fill Saint Pius, Supreme Pontiff, with heavenly wisdom and apostolic fortitude: grant propitiously; that, following his institutes and examples, we may obtain eternal rewards.
$Per eumdem

[Lectio4]
Pope Pius the Tenth, whose name was previously Joseph Sarto, was born in a village of the Venetians which they call Riese, of parents indeed humble, but conspicuous for probity and piety. Enrolled among the students of the Seminary of Padua, he so advanced in piety and doctrine, that he was an example to his fellow students and an admiration to his directors. Initiated into the priesthood, he labored for several years first in the town of Tombolo as a vicar cooperator [assistant curate], then at Salzano as a pastor; in discharging which duties, he excelled with so great an outpouring of charity, with so great priestly zeal and holiness of life, that the Bishop of Treviso co-opted him among the canons of the cathedral church, and appointed him chancellor of the episcopal Curia and at the same time spiritual director of the diocesan Seminary. Having fulfilled these offices so excellently, he was appointed Bishop of the church of Mantua by Leo the Thirteenth, to whom he was highly approved.

[Lectio5]
Neglecting no part of the good shepherd, he labored particularly that the young men called unto the lot of the Lord should be rightly instructed for Sacred things, that pious associations should grow with new increases, and that more decorum and piety should be added to the rites of divine worship. He ceased not more deeply to proclaim the precepts upon which the Christian State rests, and he who himself led a poor life, never omitted to bring relief to the poor. Therefore with so many merits supporting him, he was enrolled among the purple-clad Fathers [Cardinals] and created Patriarch of Venice. Finally, after the death of Leo the Thirteenth, when the suffrages of the Cardinal Fathers coalesced upon him, and when he himself had in vain endeavoured by supplications and tears to avert so great a burden from himself, yielding at length unto persuasions, he said, “I accept it for a Cross,” and with humble but brave spirit he undertook the height of the Supreme Pontificate as a cross offered to him by God.

[Lectio6]
Established in the chair of Peter, he relaxed nothing of his former manner of life. He shone especially in humility, simplicity, and poverty, so that in his testament he could write: “I was born poor, I have lived poor, I desire to die poor.” But the humility of soul nourished fortitude in him, when it was a question of the glory of God, the liberty of the Church, and the salvation of souls. A man of the keenest intellect and tenacious of purpose, amid the storms of the beginning of the twentieth century, he firmly ruled the Church, and adorned her with the most excellent institutes. He recalled Sacred Music unto its pristine splendour and dignity; he established the chief seat at Rome for the studies of the Sacred Scriptures; he wisely reformed the Roman Curia; he restored the laws concerning the instruction of the faithful through the catechism; he introduced a more frequent, nay even daily, custom of the Eucharistic table, and opened access to it also for children from the first use of reason; he diligently promoted the growth of Catholic Action; he provided for the solid formation of the clergy, with seminaries also added and distributed throughout the regions; he drew all priests unto the cultivation of the interior life; he brought the laws of the Church together into one body; he condemned and rooted out the most pernicious errors comprehended under the name of Modernism; he rejected the civil veto, as they call it, in the election of the Supreme Pontiff. At length, broken by labours and worn out by sorrow on account of the European war then broken out, on the twentieth day of the month of August in the year one thousand nine hundred and fourteen, he took flight unto the heavenly reward. Being famous throughout the whole world by the reputation of his holiness and shining with miracles, Pope Pius the Twelfth, the whole world applauding, enrolled in the number of the Saints.

[Lectio94]
Pope Pius the Tenth, whose name before was Joseph Sarto, was born in a village of the Venetians which they call Riese. Enrolled among the alumni of the Seminary of Padua and advanced unto the priesthood, first in the town of Tombolo as assistant curate, then at Salzano as parish priest, and at Treviso as canon and chancellor of the episcopal Curia, he so excelled that Leo the Thirteenth set him over the Church of Mantua. Neglecting no part of the good shepherd, he laboured especially for the right instruction of the youth called unto the lot of the Lord; he promoted the decorum of divine worship and the increases of pious associations; with outpoured charity he provided for the want of the poor. With so many merits supporting him, he was enrolled among the purple Fathers and created Patriarch of Venice. After the death of Leo the Thirteenth, when the suffrages of the Cardinal Fathers coalesced upon him, resisting in vain, he undertook the Supreme Pontificate as a cross. Established in the chair of Peter, he relaxed nothing of his former manner of life. He shone especially in humility, simplicity, and poverty. He firmly ruled the Church and adorned her with most excellent institutes. A most vigilant guardian of the faith, he condemned and crushed Modernism, the sum of all heresies; a most keen defender of ecclesiastical liberty, he strongly withstood those who attempted to undermine it; he provided for the solid formation of the clergy; he reduced the laws of the Church into one body; he most greatly advanced the cult toward the Eucharist and its more frequent use. Broken by labours and worn out with sorrow on account of the European war then arisen, on the twentieth day of the month of August in the year one thousand nine hundred and fourteen, he flew unto the heavenly fatherland. Pius the Twelfth enrolled him in the number of the Saints.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to John
!John 21:15-17
At that time: Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon, son of John, lovest thou Me more than these? And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!Tractate 123 on John, in the middle
A threefold confession is rendered to [satisfy] a threefold denial, lest the tongue should serve love less than it served fear: and lest imminent death should seem to drawn more out of the lips than present life. Let the office of love be to feed the Lord’s flock, if to deny the Shepherd was the sign of [the office of] fear. Those who feed the sheep of Christ with this mind, that they wish them to be their own [sheep] and not Christ's, are convicted here of loving themselves instead, and not Christ: [they serve this office] out of a [threefold] cupidity of glorying, or of dominating, or of gaining [acquiring]; and not from the Charity of [threefold] obeying and of helping and of pleasing God.

[Lectio8]
Against these [priests], therefore, watches that voice of Christ, inculcated just as many times [three], against those whom the Apostle laments that only seek their own things, and not the things of Jesus Christ. For what else is it say, "If thou lovest Me? Feed My sheep"; than if it were said, "If thou lovest Me, think not to feed thyself", but feed my sheep as Mine, and not as thine own; seek My glory in them, not thine; seek My dominion in them, not thine; seek My gains [acquiring] in them, not thine; lest thou be found in the society of those who belong to the perilous times, lovers of self, and the rest that are connected to this beginning of evils?

[Lectio9]
Rightly it is said to Peter: "Lovest thou me?" [Diligis me] and he answers, "I am fond of thee," [I do love thee] [Amo te] and it is replied to him, "Feed my lambs," and this a second time, this a third time. Where here also it is demonstrated that affection [amor] and love [dilectio] are one and the same thing [for our purposes in loving God]; for the Lord also in the last [third] question said not: "Dost thou love me?" [Diligis me?]: but: "Are you fond of me?" [Amas me?] Let us therefore not love ourselves [and have fondness], but Him, and in feeding His sheep let us seek the things that are His, not the things that are our own. For I know not by what inexplicable manner, whoever loves himself, and not God, does not love himself; and whoever loves God and not himself, he it is that loves himself. For he who cannot live of himself [by his own power], certainly dies by loving himself: he does not therefore [truly] love himself, who loves himself [first] so that he may not live. [rest from Augustine: But when he is loved of He who lives, by not loving himself first, he truly loves himself the more, who for this reason does not love himself firstly, that he may love Him of whom he lives.]
&teDeum
