[Rank]
Second Day within the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/09-08

[Lectio4]
From the Sermons of Saint Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo)
!Serm. 18 on the Saints
Mary exults, and rejoicing she marvels that she is a mother, and rejoices that she has brought forth of the Holy Ghost; nor is she terrified because she has brought forth unwedded; but because she has begotten, she marvels with exultation. O woman blessed above women, who altogether knew not man, and yet enclosed a man in her womb! Mary encloses a man by giving credence [faith] to the Angel, because Eve lost a man by consenting to the serpent. O happy obedience, O singular grace! which, which while she humbly gave faith, embodied in herself the Craftsman of heaven. Hence she merited the glory which she herself afterwards increased. Behold, she saith, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.

[Lectio5]
O blessed Mary, who can worthily repay thee the dues of gratitude and the proclamations of praise, who by thy singular assent didst succour a lost world? What praises can the frailty of the human race render thee, who by thy sole commerce found the entrance of recovery? Accept therefore such as they are, however poor, however unequal to thy merits, our thanksgivings: and when thou hast received our vows, by praying for us, excuse our faults. Admit our prayers within the sanctuary of hearing, and bring back to us the antidote of reconciliation.

[Lectio6]
May what we present through thee be excusable through thee: may what we ask with a faithful mind be obtainable. Accept what we offer, bestow again what we ask, excuse what we fear: because thou art the sole hope of sinners. Through thee we hope for the pardon of our sins, and in thee, O most blessed one, is the expectation of our rewards. Holy Mary, succour the miserable, help the faint-hearted, refresh the tearful, pray for the people, intervene for the clergy, intercede for the devout female sex: let all feel thy help, whoever celebrate thy holy Nativity.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem)
!Lib. 1. Comm. on Matt.
And Jacob begat Joseph. Julian the Emperor objected this passage to us concerning the dissonance of the Evangelists, why the Evangelist Matthew called Joseph the son of Jacob, and Luke called him the son of Heli: not understanding the custom of the Scriptures, that the one according to nature, the other according to the law was father to him. For we know this was commanded by Moses, God ordering it, that if a brother or relative died without children, another should take his wife to raise up seed to his brother or relative. Joseph the husband of Mary. When thou hearest 'husband', let not a suspicion of marriage enter thy mind: but remember the custom of the Scriptures, that betrothed men are called husbands, and betrothed women wives.

[Lectio8]
And from the carrying away to Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations. Count from Jechonias unto Joseph, and thou shalt find thirteen generations. The fourteenth generation therefore shall be counted in Christ Himself. Now the generation of Christ was on this wise. Let the diligent reader ask and say: Since Joseph is not the father of the Lord Savior, how does the order of the generation brought down even unto Joseph pertain to the Lord? To whom we shall answer, first, that it is not the custom of the Scriptures that the order of women be woven in genealogies. Secondly, that Joseph and Mary were of one tribe, whence by the law he was compelled to take her as a kinswoman, and that they were enrolled together in Bethlehem, as being namely generated from one stock.
