[Officium]
Saint Stephen, King of Hungary, Confessor

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, unto Thy Church, O almighty God: that she may merit to have as a glorious defender in heaven blessed Stephen Thy Confessor, whom she had as a propagator while he reigned upon earth.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Stephen [was the son of Geysa, fourth Duke of the Hungarians, and was born at Gran in the year 977.] introduced the Faith and Name of the Royalty of Christ into Hungary. Having obtained a royal crown from the Roman Pontiff, and by his command being anointed king, he offered the kingdom unto the Apostolic See. With admirable religion and munificence he founded various dwellings of piety at Rome, at Jerusalem, and at Constantinople: and in Hungary the archbishopric of Strigonium [Esztergom] and ten bishoprics. Equal was his love and liberality toward the poor, whom, embracing as Christ Himself, he never dismissed any one sorrowful or empty from him; nay, for the relieving of their want, having expended most ample means, he frequently also distributed with exceeding benignity the household furniture itself. Moreover he was wont with his own hands to wash the feet of the poor, by night alone and unknown to frequent the hospitals, to serve the bedridden, and to perform the other offices of charity. By the merit of which virtues, his right hand, the rest of the body being dissolved, remained incorrupt.

[Lectio5]
In the study of prayer he spent nearly whole nights sleepless; and fixed in the contemplation of heavenly things, he was sometimes seen, rapt out of his senses, to be borne aloft in the air. The conspiracies of rebels and the attacks of more powerful enemies he more than once, in a manner altogether miraculous, he avoided by the protection of prayer. His son Emeric, whom he had [sired] by joining in matrimony to [Blessed] Gisela of Bavaria, sister of the Emperor Saint Henry [II], he nurtured with such discipline of morals and such piety as his later sanctiy made manifest. Indeed, he so arranged the affairs of the kingdom that, having summoned the most prudent and holy men from all sides, he would never undertake anything without their counsel; meanwhile beseeching God with most humble prayers in ashes and a hairshirt, that he might merit to see the whole kingdom of Hungary Catholic before he departed from life. Truly, on account of his immense zeal for spreading the faith, he was called the Apostle of that nation, having been granted by the Roman Pontiff for himself and succeeding kings the privilege of having the cross borne before them.

[Lectio6]
The Mother of God, whom he most ardently venerated, he instituted the Patroness of Hungary, a most ample temple having been built in her honour; and he, by the same Virgin, was in turn received into heaven on the very day of her Assumption, [in 1038] which the Hungarians from the institution of the holy king call the "Day of the Great Lady". His sacred body, fragrant with most sweet odour, abounding with heavenly liquor, amid many and various miracles, by command of the Roman Pontiff was translated unto a nobler place and more honourably buried. But his feast Pope Innocent the Eleventh instituted to be celebrated on the fourth day before the Nones of September, on account of the signal victory which, by divine help, the army of Leopold the First, elected emperor of the Romans and king of Hungary, on the same day in the taking of Buda, gained from the Turks. [in 1686]

[Lectio94]
Stephen, king of the Hungarians, introduced the faith of Christ and the royal name into Hungary. Having obtained a royal crown from the Roman Pontiff, and by his command being anointed king, he offered the kingdom unto the Apostolic See. He established various dwellings of piety at Rome, at Jerusalem, and at Constantinople: in Hungary he founded the archbishopric of Strigonium [Esztergom] and ten bishoprics with admirable religion and munificence. He shone with exceeding charity toward the poor and with assiduous study of prayer. The Mother of God, whom he most ardently venerated, he instituted the Patroness of Hungary, a most ample temple having been built in her honour; by the same Virgin in turn being received into heaven on the very day of her Assumption, which the Hungarians from the institution of the holy King call the Day of the Great Lady. His feast nevertheless, by the constitution of Pope Innocent the Eleventh, is chiefly commemorated on this day, on which the most strongly fortified citadel of Buda, by the help of the holy King, was strenuously recovered by the Christian army.
&teDeum
