[Rank]
Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis cum Octava simplici;;5.1;;ex C11

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex II classis cum Octava simplici;;5;;vide C11

[Ant Vespera]
The Nativity of the glorious * Virgin Mary of the seed of Abraham, sprung from the tribe of Juda, illustrious from the stock of David.;;109
Today is the Nativity * of the holy Virgin Mary, whose glorious life illuminates all the churches.;;112
From a royal lineage * Mary hath arisen and shineth forth; by whose prayers we most devoutly beseech to be helped in mind and spirit.;;121
With heart and soul * let us sing glory to Christ on this sacred solemnity of the most excellent Mother of God Mary.;;126
With joy * let us celebrate the Nativity of the blessed Mary, that she may intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.;;147

[Versum 1]
V. Today is the Nativity of the holy Virgin Mary.
R. Whose glorious life illuminates all the churches.

[Ant 1]
Let us commemorate * the most worthy birth of the glorious Virgin Mary, who both obtained the dignity of Mother and lost not her virginal purity.

[Oratio]
Bestow upon Thy servants, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the gift of heavenly grace: that to those for whom the childbirth of the blessed Virgin was the beginning of salvation, the votive solemnity of her Nativity may grant an increase of peace.
$Per Dominum

[Octava]
!Commemoration of the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Ant. Thy Nativity, * O Virgin Mother of God, announced joy to the whole world: for from thee hath arisen the Sun of justice, Christ our God: who, loosing the curse, gave blessing; and confounding death, bestowed upon us everlasting life.
_
V. Today is the Nativity of the holy Virgin Mary.
R. Whose glorious life illuminates all the churches.
_
$Oremus.
v. Bestow upon Thy servants, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the gift of heavenly grace: that to those for whom the childbirth of the blessed Virgin was the beginning of salvation, the votive solemnity of her Nativity may grant an increase of peace.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Let us celebrate the Nativity of the Virgin Mary: * Let us adore Christ her Son, our Lord.

[Responsory1]
R. Today is born the blessed Virgin Mary of the lineage of David;
* Through whom the salvation of the world hath appeared to them that believe, whose glorious life hath given light to the world.
V. Let us celebrate with joy the Nativity of the blessed Virgin Mary.
R. Through whom the salvation of the world hath appeared to them that believe, whose glorious life hath given light to the world.

[Responsory2]
R. Let us most devoutly celebrate the Nativity of the most blessed Virgin Mary,
* That she may intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.
V. With joy let us most devoutly celebrate the Nativity of the blessed Virgin Mary.
R. That she may intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.

[Responsory3]
R. Let us commemorate the most worthy birth of the glorious Virgin Mary,
* Whose humility the Lord regarded, who, the Angel announcing, conceived the Saviour of the world.
V. Let us most devoutly celebrate the Nativity of the most blessed Virgin Mary.
R. Whose humility the Lord regarded, who, the Angel announcing, conceived the Saviour of the world.
&Gloria
R. Whose humility the Lord regarded, who, the Angel announcing, conceived the Saviour of the world.

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Augustine the Bishop
!Sermon 18 on the Saints, which is the 2nd on the Annunciation of the Lord
The longed-for day of the blessed and venerable Ever-Virgin Mary is present to us, most beloved; therefore let our earth rejoice with the greatest exultation, illuminated by the birthday of so great a Virgin. For she is the flower of the field, from whom hath sprung the precious lily of the valleys, this is she whose delivery changed the nature that we draw from our first parents, and their guilt is blotted out. In her is cut off that sentence of Eve's unhappiness, by which it is said: "In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children"; (Gen. 3:16.); because she brought forth the Lord in gladness.

[Responsory4]
R. The Nativity of the glorious Virgin Mary of the seed of Abraham, sprung from the tribe of Juda, illustrious from the stock of David;
* Whose glorious life illuminates all the churches.
V. Today is born the blessed Virgin Mary of the lineage of David.
R. Whose glorious life illuminates all the churches.

[Lectio5]
For Eve mourned, but Mary exulted. Eve bore tears in her womb, Mary bore joy in hers. Because Eve brought forth a sinner, Mary brought forth the Innocent. The mother of our race brought punishment to the world, the Mother of our Lord brought salvation to the world. Eve was the authoress of sin, Mary was the authoress of merit. [auctrix mériti María]. Eve harmed by killing, Mary helped by giving life. Eve struck, and Mary healed. For in place of Eve's disobedience, Mary offered obedience in exchange, and Mary offered Faith in compensation for Eve's perfidy.

[Responsory5]
R. With joy let us celebrate the Nativity of the blessed Mary,
* That she may intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.
V. With heart and soul let us sing glory to Christ on this sacred solemnity of the most excellent Mother of God Mary.
R. That she may intercede for us with the Lord Jesus Christ.

[Lectio6]
Let Mary now strike the instruments, and among her swift fingers let the timbrels of the mother resound. Let the rejoicing choirs sing together, and with alternating melodies let the sweet-sounding songs be mingled. Hear therefore, how our timbrel-player hath sung; for she saith: "My soul doth magnify the Lord: and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour. Because He hath regarded the humility of His handmaid: for behold from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. Because He that is mighty hath done great things to me." Therefore the miracle of the new childbirth hath overcome the cause of the growing error [? 1888 has: effaced the curse of the frail backslider]; and the Song of Mary hath shut out the Lament of Eve.

[Responsory6]
R. Thy Nativity, O Virgin Mother of God, announced joy to the whole world;
* For from thee hath arisen the Sun of justice, Christ our God: * Who, loosing the curse, gave blessing; and confounding death, bestowed upon us everlasting life.
V. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
R. For from thee hath arisen the Sun of justice, Christ our God.
&Gloria
R. Who, loosing the curse, gave blessing; and confounding death, bestowed upon us everlasting life.

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Jerome the Priest
!Book 1 of the Commentary on Matthew, at the beginning
In Isaias (liii. 8) we read: “Who shall declare His generation?” Let us not therefore think that the Evangelist is contrary to the Prophet, so that what the latter declared impossible to utter, this one begins to narrate: because there it is spoken of the generation of the Divinity, [Word by the Eternal Father,] here of the Incarnation [family gens in which the Incarnation took place.] Matthew began with bodily things, that by learning of the generation of Man we may go on to learn of that of God. “The Son of David, the son of Abraham.” The order is reversed, but necessarily changed. For if he had placed Abraham first and afterward David, Abraham would have had to be repeated by him again, so that the series of the generation might be woven.

[Responsory7]
R. All generations shall call me blessed, 
* Because He that is mighty hath done great things to me, and holy is His name.
V. And His mercy is from generation unto generations, to them that fear Him.
R. Because He that is mighty hath done great things to me, and holy is His name.

[Lectio8]
And for this reason, others being passed over, he [St. Matthew] named Him the son of these [David and Abraham], because to these alone was the promise made concerning Christ. To Abraham: In thy seed, He saith, shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, which is Christ. (Gen. 22:18) To David: Of the fruit of thy womb I will set upon thy throne. (Ps. 131:11) And Judas begot Phares and Zara of Thamar. It is to be noted that in the genealogy of the Saviour no holy women are assumed [named], but those whom the Scripture reprehends [as sinners]; so that He, who had come on account of sinners, being born from sinners, might blot out the sins of all. Whence also in the following things Ruth the Moabitess is placed, and Bethsabee the wife of Urias.

[Responsory8]
@Sancti/07-02:Responsory8:s/thy Visitation/day in honour of thy Nativity/

[Lectio9]
And Jacob begot Joseph. This place Julian the Augustus objected to us concerning the dissonance of the Evangelists, why the Evangelist Matthew said that Joseph was the son of Jacob and Luke called him the son of Heli; not understanding the custom of the Scriptures, that one is father to him according to nature, the other according to the law. For we know that this was commanded by Moses, God ordering, that if a brother or kinsman should die without children, another should take the wife to raise up seed to his brother or kinsman. [Now, on the topic of] Joseph the husband of Mary. When thou hearest "husband," let not the suspicion of nuptials steal upon thee; but remember the custom of the Scriptures, that betrothed men are called husbands, and betrothed women are called wives.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
Let us solemnly celebrate * today’s Nativity of the perpetual Virgin Mother of God Mary, from which the height of the throne hath proceeded, alleluia.

[Ant 3]
Thy Nativity, * O Virgin Mother of God, announced joy to the whole world: for from thee hath arisen the Sun of justice, Christ our God: who, loosing the curse, gave blessing; and confounding death, bestowed upon us everlasting life.
