[Officium]
Saint Laurence Justinian, Bishop and Confessor  

[Name]
Laurence

[Lectio4]
Laurence, born at Venice [in 1380] of the illustrious family of the Justiniani, even as a boy showed forth an exceeding gravity of manners. His adolescence having been spent among the offices of piety, being invited by divine wisdom unto the chaste marriage of the Word and the soul, he began to deliberate concerning the taking up of the institute of the religious life. And so, secretly preparing for a new warfare, besides other afflictions of the body, he was wont to lie upon bare boards; and sitting as it were a judge between the blandishments of the world and the marriage prepared by his mother on the one side, and the austerities of the cloister on the other, with his eyes turned unto the cross of the suffering Christ, he said: “Thou, O Lord, art my hope: there hast Thou set Thy most certain refuge”; and he hastened unto the congregation of the canons of Saint George in Alga: where, inventing new torments and more fiercely renewing the war against himself as against a most bitter enemy, he indulged himself in no delight whatsoever, so that he never entered either into the domestic garden or even into his father’s house, save when with dry eyes he paid the last offices of piety unto his dying mother, and thereafter entered not again. Equal was his zeal for obedience, for meekness, and especially for humility, when of his own accord he took upon himself the most abject duties of the monastery, begged alms through the most frequented places of the city, not so much for food as for mockeries, and bore insults and calumnies inflicted upon him unmoved and silent; above all by the help of assiduous prayer, whereby he was often rapt in excess of mind unto God; and with so great ardour did his heart burn that he inflamed even wavering brethren unto perseverance and the love of Jesus Christ.

[Lectio5]
Appointed bishop of his native city [in 1433] by Eugenius the Fourth, which honour he had declined with great contention, he exercised it with yet greater praise. For, his customary manner of living being scarcely at all changed, he retained perpetually the poverty which he had always cultivated, in table, furniture, and bed. He kept a moderate household at home, saying that he had another large one, signifying the poor of Christ. At whatever hour he was approached, he was ready for all, he relieved all with fatherly charity, not refusing even to burden himself with debt, lest he should fail their need. Being asked in what hope he did this, he answered: “In the hope of my Lord, who can easily dissolve it for me.” And that hope was not confounded, divine providence continually declaring it by unexpected helps sent. He built many monasteries of virgins, whom also by his vigilance he composed unto the manner of a more perfect life. He strove exceedingly to recall matrons [married women in 1888 translation] from the pomps of the world and the vanity of adornment, and to reform ecclesiastical discipline and manners; worthy indeed to be called by the same Eugenius, in the presence of the cardinals, the glory and ornament of bishops, and by Nicholas the Fifth his successor, the title being transferred from the city of Grado, to be appointed the first patriarch of Venice.

[Lectio6]
Distinguished by the gift of tears, he daily offered unto almighty God the victim of propitiation. When on a certain night of the Nativity of the Lord he was performing this, he merited to see Christ Jesus under the appearance of a most beautiful Infant; and so great was the protection of the flock committed unto him in him, that it was once received from heaven that the commonwealth had stood by the intercession and merits of its pontiff. Endued with the spirit of prophecy, he foretold many things altogether beyond human knowledge: by his prayers he often put to flight diseases and demons: and though almost unskilled in grammar, he wrote books breathing heavenly doctrine and piety. At length, having fallen into a mortal sickness, and when they prepared a more convenient bed for the old and sick man of the household, he turned away from such delights as too greatly abhorring the most hard cross of his dying Lord, and commanded himself to be laid upon his customary straw; and foreknowing the approach of the end of his life, with eyes lifted unto heaven, he said: “I come unto Thee, O good Jesus”; and on the eighth day of January he fell asleep in the Lord. His precious death was attested by angelic harmonies heard by certain Carthusian monks, and by the sacred body remaining unburied for more than two months, fragrant with sweet odour, with ruddy face, entire and incorrupt, and by new miracles wrought after death: by which moved, Pope Alexander the Eighth enrolled him in the number of the saints. But Innocent the Twelfth assigned the fifth day of September, on which the holy man had first been raised unto the pontifical chair, for the celebration of his feast.

[Lectio94]
Laurence, born at Venice of the illustrious family of the Justiniani, from his adolescence shone with a wondrous zeal for afflicting the body, and, despising the allurements of the world and the marriage prepared by his mother, was received into the congregation of the canons of Saint George in Alga. Appointed bishop of his native city by Eugenius the Fourth, his customary manner of living being scarcely at all changed, he never ceased to relieve the necessities of the poor, even burdening himself with debt, trusting in divine providence, which always assisted him with unexpected helps. He raised many monasteries of virgins, or composed them unto the norms of a more perfect life. An exceeding example of Christian humility, he strove exceedingly to reform ecclesiastical discipline and manners, worthy to be called by the supreme Pontiffs the glory of bishops, and to be appointed the first patriarch of Venice, the title being transferred from the city of Grado. Distinguished by the gift of tears, of prophecy, and of healings, though almost unskilled in grammar, he wrote books conspicuous for heavenly doctrine and piety. He fell asleep in the Lord on the eighth day of January. But his feast is commemorated on this day, on which the man of God was raised unto the episcopal chair.
&teDeum
