[Rank]
Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/09-08

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Cyril Bishop of Alexandria.
!Homily against Nestorius.
I see today a joyful assembly of all the faithful, who have come together with ready souls, called by the holy and ever-Virgin Mary Mother of God. Praise and glory be to Thee, O holy Trinity, that Thou hast called us all to this celebration. Praise also be to thee, O holy Mother of God. For thou art the precious pearl of the whole world: thou the lamp of unextinguished light, the crown of virginity, the sceptre of orthodox faith, the indissoluble temple containing Him who can nowhere be contained, Mother and Virgin: thou the blessed among women, the parent of Him who blessed came in the name of the Lord.

[Lectio5]
Through thee the Trinity is sanctified: through thee the precious Cross is named, and is adored throughout the whole world. Through thee heaven exults, the Angels and Archangels rejoice, the demons are put to flight, and man himself is recalled to heaven. Every creature held in the error of idols has been converted to the knowledge of the truth, and faithful men have come to holy baptism, and throughout the whole world churches have been built.

[Lectio6]
With thee as helper the nations come to penance. What more? Through thee the only-begotten Son of God, that true light, has shone upon them that sat in darkness and in the shadow of death. Thee the Prophets foretold, thee the Apostles celebrated with highest praises. Who will be able to unfold the proclamations of thy praises, O Mary Mother and Virgin? Her, most beloved brethren, let us celebrate, adoring her Son the immaculate Spouse of the Church: to whom be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint John Chrysostom.
!Homily 2 on Matthew, after the beginning.
It is indeed marvellous to hear that the ineffable God, who can neither be explained by words nor comprehended by thoughts, and who is coequal with the Father in all things, came to us through the womb of a Virgin, and deigned to be born of a woman, and to have for progenitors David and Abraham: and why do I say David and Abraham? even those women also, which is more astonishing, whom I mentioned a little before. Hearing these things therefore, rise up in mind, and suspect nothing lowly, but rather for this very reason marvel the more, because, although He is the true and beloved Son of the everlasting God, He also deigned to be the son of David, in order that He might make thee a son of God: He deigned to have a servant for father, that He might make for thee, a servant, God Himself as father.

[Lectio8]
Thou seest from the very beginning how joyful these things are that are united. But if thou doubtest concerning those things that look to thine own honour, from those that are His learn to believe also thine. For as far as human reason can attain, it is much more difficult for God to become man than for man to be consecrated a son of God. When therefore thou hearest that the Son of God is also the son of David and of Abraham: cease already to doubt that thou also, who art a son of Adam, shalt be a son of God. For He would not have so humbled Himself, unless He were about to exalt us. For He was born according to the flesh, that thou mightest be born according to the spirit: He was born of a woman, that thou mightest cease to be a son of a woman.
