[Rank]
The Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;4;;ex C11

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
The Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex;;3;;vide C11

[Rank] (rubrica innovata)
The Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Duplex optional;;2;;vide C11

[Ant 1]
Holy Mary, * succour the miserable, help the faint-hearted, refresh the tearful, pray for the people, intervene for the clergy, intercede for the devout female sex: let all feel thy help, whoever celebrate the commemoration of thy holy name.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God: that Thy faithful, who rejoice under the Name and protection of the most holy Virgin Mary, may by her pious intercession be delivered from all evils on earth, and may merit to attain unto eternal joys in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Bernard the Abbot
!From Homily 2 on “Missus est,” near the end
And the name of the Virgin, he saith, was Mary. Let us speak a little also upon this name, which interpreted is said Star of the sea, and is most fittingly adapted to the Virgin Mother. For she is most aptly compared to a star, because just as a star sends forth its ray without any corruption of itself, so without any injury of herself the Virgin brought forth the Son. Neither does the ray diminish the brightness of the star, nor the Son the integrity of the Virgin. She therefore is that noble star arisen from Jacob, whose ray illuminates the universal orb, whose splendor both shines brightly in the highest, and penetrates the depths; traversing also the lands, and warming minds more than bodies, she fosters virtues, she burns out vices. She, I say, is the bright and outstanding star necessarily raised above this great and wide sea, shining with merits, illuminating with examples.

[Lectio5]
O whoever thou understandest thyself to be tossed more among storms and tempests in the flood of this world than walking upon the earth; turn not away thine eyes from the brightness of this star, if thou wouldst not be overwhelmed by the storms. If the winds of temptations arise, if thou runnest upon the rocks of tribulations, look upon the star, call upon Mary. If thou art tossed by the waves of pride, if of ambition, if of detraction, if of envy, look thou to the star, call upon Mary. If anger or avarice or the allurement of the flesh has shaken the little boat of the mind, look thou to Mary. If, troubled by the enormity of thy crimes, confused by the foulness of thy conscience, terrified by the horror of judgment, thou beginnest to be swallowed by the abyss of sadness, in the gulf of despair, think thou on Mary.

[Lectio6]
In dangers [of storms], in straits [of waters], in doubtful matters think of Mary, invoke Mary. Let her not depart from thy mouth, let her not depart from thy heart; and that thou mayest obtain the suffrage of her prayer, desert not the example of her conversation. Following her, thou deviatest not; asking her, thou dost not despair; thinking of her, thou dost not err; with her holding thee, thou dost not fall [overboard]; with her protecting thee, thou dost not fear; with her as guide, thou dost not grow weary; through her propitiation, thou arrivest [in port]: and thus, [while imitating her] in thyself thou experiencest with what merit it was said: And the Virgin's name was Mary. [the Sea]. - (Here ends Saint Bernard.) Which venerable name indeed, already long since cultivated with a special rite in certain parts of the Christian world, the Roman Pontiff Innocent the Eleventh, on account of a signal victory under the protection of the same Virgin Mary over the most fierce tyrant of the Turks, insulting the necks of the Christian people, obtained at Vienna in Austria, and as a perennial monument of so great a benefit, commanded to be celebrated every year in the universal Church. (upon the 12th day of September, in the year 1683.)

[Lectio94]
The venerable name of the Virgin Mary, which being interpreted is said to mean star of the sea, is exceedingly conveniently fitted to the Virgin Mother. For she herself is most fittingly compared to a star, because, as a star emits its ray without its own corruption, so without her own injury the Virgin brought forth a Son. Neither does the ray diminish the star's clarity, nor the Son the Virgin's integrity. She is therefore that noble star risen out of Jacob, necessarily lifted up over this great and spacious sea, shining with merits, illuminating with examples. O whosoever thou art who understandest thyself in the flux of this age to be fluctuating among storms and tempests, rather than to be walking upon the earth, turn not away thine eyes from the brightness of this star. Think thou on Mary, invoke thou Mary, that thus in thyself thou mayest experience with what merit it was said: And the Virgin's name was Mary. Which most sweet name indeed, already cultivated in certain parts of the Christian orb by a special rite, the Roman Pontiff Innocent the Eleventh, on account of a signal victory over the most fierce tyrant of the Turks, insulting the necks of the Christian people, obtained at Vienna in Austria, and as a perennial monument of so great a benefit, commanded to be celebrated every year in the universal Church.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 1:26-38
At that time: The Angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s name was Mary. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Peter Chrysologus
!Sermon 142 on the Annunciation
Ye have heard today, most beloved brethren, an Angel treating with a woman concerning the reparation of man. Ye have heard it to be done, that man by the same courses by which he had fallen down to death, might return to life. The Angel treats, treats with Mary concerning salvation, because an angel had treated with Eve concerning ruin. Ye have heard an Angel constructing by ineffable art from the clay of our flesh a temple of the divine majesty. Ye have heard God to be placed on earth, man in heaven, by an incomprehensible sacrament. Ye have heard by an unheard-of reason God and man mingled in one body. Ye have heard the fragile nature of our flesh to be strengthened by angelic exhortation to bear the whole glory of the Deity.

[Responsory7]
@Commune/C11:Responsory7:s/thine holy Feast day/Commemoration of thy Name/

[Lectio8]
Finally, lest under so great a weight of the heavenly artwork [fabric] the fine clay of our body should sink in Mary, and the slender rod [or Branch] in the Virgin, about to bear the fruit of the whole human race, should be broken; the voice of the Angel soon went before to put flight to fear, saying: Fear not, Mary. Before the cause of [Gabriel's message is said,] the dignity of the Virgin is announced from her name; for Mary in the Hebrew speech is called, in Latin, Domina [Ladyship]. The Angel therefore calls her Domina [Lady], that the Begotress of the Dominator [Lord - Dominatoris Genetricem] might have the trembling of any servitude desert her, she, whom through the authority of her own Offspring, was made and obtained [the title] to be born and called Domina. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace. It is true, because he who findeth grace knoweth not how to fear [in servitude]: Thou hast found grace.

[Lectio9]
Blessed is she who alone among mankind merited above all others to hear these words: Thou hast found grace. How much? As much as [Gabriel] had said above: Full [Plenam]. And truly full,which by a copious shower would pour and infuse the whole creature: For thou hast found grace with God.When he says these things, the Angel himself also marvels, either that a female alone had merited so much, or that all mankind should have merited life through a female: the Angel is astounded that the whole God should come within the narrowness of a virginal womb, He, for whom the whole creation simultaneously is narrow. Hence, so it is that the Angel delays also in the giving of the message, hence it is that he first delays in giving the message by first calling her Virgin by her merits, he then hails her as the fullness of grace. Then, with great trepidation he delivereth his message, truly he is delaying in order to advance her understanding, he trembles as he produces the causes [of what is happening to her], as he produces phrases for the hearer, that he spent long in composing.
&teDeum
