[Rank]
Exaltation of the Holy Cross;;Duplex majus;;4;;ex Sancti/05-03

[Rank] (rubrica 196)
Exaltation of the Holy Cross;;Duplex II classis;;5.5;;ex Sancti/05-03

[Oratio]
O God, who makest us glad this day with the annual solemnity of the Exaltation of the holy Cross: grant, we beseech Thee; that we, who have known its mystery on earth, may merit the rewards of its redemption in heaven.
$Per eumdem

[Invit]
Christ the King, exalted for us upon the Cross, * Come, let us adore.

[Ant Matutinum]
The noble tree * is exalted, the faith of Christ shineth brightly, while the Cross is venerated by all.;;1
The Holy Cross * is lifted up by all kings, the royal sceptre is raised, upon which the Saviour triumphed.;;2
O venerable Cross, * which hast brought salvation to the wretched, with what heraldings shall I extol thee, since thou hast prepared for us heavenly life.;;3
O victory of the Cross * and admirable sign, make us to grasp the triumph in the heavenly court.;;4
The punishment of deadly death * is condemned, while Christ, upon the Cross, hath destroyed the bonds of our crimes.;;10
The King is exalted * into the heavens, when the noble trophy of the Cross is adored by all Christians throughout the ages.;;20
We adore Thee, O Christ, * and we bless Thee, because by Thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world.;;95
Through the wood * we were made slaves, and through the holy Cross we have been delivered: the fruit of the tree seduced us, the Son of God hath redeemed us, alleluia.;;96
O Savior of the world, * save us: Thou who by Thy Cross and blood hast redeemed us, help us, we beseech Thee, our God.;;97

[Lectio1]
From the Book of Numbers
!Num 21:1-3
When the Chanaanite king of Arad, who dwelt toward the south, had heard that Israel was come by the way of the spies, he fought against them, and overcoming them carried off their spoils. But Israel binding himself by vow to the Lord, said: If Thou wilt deliver this people into my hand, I will utterly destroy their cities. And the Lord heard the prayers of Israel, and delivered up the Chanaanite, and they utterly destroyed him and his cities: and they called the name of that place Horma, that is, Anathema.

[Lectio2]
!Num 21:4-6
And they marched from mount Hor by the way that leadeth to the Red Sea, to compass the land of Edom. And the people began to be weary of their journey and labour. And speaking against God and Moses, they said: Why didst thou bring us out of Egypt, to die in the wilderness? There is no bread, neither are there any waters: our soul now loatheth this very light food. Wherefore the Lord sent among the people fiery serpents.

[Lectio3]
!Num 21:6-9
At whose bites and the deaths of many they came to Moses, and said: We have sinned, because we have spoken against the Lord and thee: pray that He may take away these serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said to him: Make a brazen serpent, and set it up for a sign: whosoever being struck shall look on it, shall live. Moses therefore made a brazen serpent, and set it up for a sign: which when they that were bitten looked upon, they were healed.

[Responsory3]
R. This is the most worthy tree, set in the midst of paradise,
* Upon which the Author of salvation by His own death overcame the death of all.
V. The Cross, shining with exceeding beauty, which the Emperor Heraclius recovered with longing soul.
R. Upon which the Author of salvation by His own death overcame the death of all.
&Gloria
R. Upon which the Author of salvation by His own death overcame the death of all.

[Lectio4]
Chosroes, king of the Persians, in the last times of the empire of Phocas, having occupied Egypt and Africa and taken Jerusalem (in 614), and having slain many thousands of Christians there, carried away into Persia the Cross of Christ the Lord, which Helena had placed upon Mount Calvary. Wherefore Heraclius, who had succeeded Phocas, being afflicted with many disadvantages and calamities of war, sought peace; which from Chosroes, insolent with victories, he could not obtain even on unjust conditions. Wherefore in the greatest danger, exercising himself with assiduous fasts and prayers, he earnestly implored help from God; by whose monition, having prepared an army, he joined battle with the enemy, and overcame three generals of Chosroes with three armies.

[Lectio5]
Broken by these disasters, Chosroes, in the flight in which he was preparing to cross the Tigris, designates Medarses his son as partner of the kingdom (in 628). But Siroes, the elder son of Chosroes, bearing this contumely with rage, plots the death of both father and brother; which a little later he inflicted upon both, drawn back from flight, and obtained the kingdom from Heraclius upon certain accepted conditions, of which the first was that he should restore the Cross of Christ the Lord. Therefore the Cross, fourteen years after it had come into the power of the Persians, was recovered (in 629). Which returning to Jerusalem, Heraclius with solemn celebration carried upon his own shoulders to that mountain whither the Saviour had borne it.

[Lectio6]
Which deed was recommended by an illustrious miracle. For Heraclius, as he was adorned with gold and gems, was compelled to stand still at the gate which leads to Mount Calvary. For the more he strove to advance, the more he seemed to be held back. And when both Heraclius himself and all the rest were astonished at this, Zacharias, bishop of Jerusalem, said: See, O emperor, lest in this triumphal attire, in bearing the Cross, thou imitate too little the poverty and humility of Jesus Christ. Then Heraclius, having cast off the most ample vesture and having drawn off his shoes and put on a common garment, easily completed the rest of the way, and set the Cross in the same place of Calvary whence it had been carried away by the Persians. And so the solemnity of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, which was celebrated yearly on this day, began to be held more illustrious on account of the memory of that event, that it was there replaced by Heraclius where it had first been set up for the Saviour.

[Lectio94]
The Holy Cross of the Lord, placed by Helena upon Mount Calvary and thence carried away by Chosroes king of the Persians, was recovered by the emperor Heraclius after a threefold victory obtained over the Persians, and carried upon his own shoulders to that mountain whither the Saviour had borne it. Which deed was recommended by an illustrious miracle. For Heraclius, as he was adorned with gold and gems, was compelled to stand still at the gate which leads to Mount Calvary. For the more he strove to advance, the more he seemed to be held back. And when both Heraclius himself and all the rest were astonished at this, Zacharias, bishop of Jerusalem, said: See, O emperor, lest in this triumphal attire in bearing the Cross thou imitate too little the poverty and humility of Jesus Christ. Then Heraclius, having cast off the most ample vesture and having drawn off his shoes and put on a common garment, easily completed the rest of the way. And so the solemnity of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, which was celebrated yearly on this day, began to be held more illustrious on account of the memory of that event.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to John
!John 12:31-36
At that time: Jesus said to the multitudes of the Jews: Now is the judgment of the world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Leo the Pope
!Sermon 8 on the Passion of the Lord, after the middle
Christ being exalted, most beloved, by the Cross, let not that appearance only occur to the sight of the mind, which was in the eyes of the impious, to whom it was said through Moses: And thy life shall be hanging before thine eyes, and thou shalt fear day and night, and thou shalt not believe thy life. For they could think nothing in the crucified Lord besides their own crime, having a fear, not by which true faith is justified, but by which an iniquitous conscience is tormented. But let our intellect, which the spirit of truth illuminates, receive the glory of the Cross, radiating in heaven and on earth, with a pure and free heart; and let it see with interior vision, what sort of thing it is which the Lord, when He spoke of the nearness of His passion, said: Now is the judgment of the world, now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be exalted from the earth, will draw all things to Myself.

[Lectio8]
O admirable power of the Cross! O ineffable glory of the Passion, in which is both the tribunal of the Lord, and the judgment of the world, and the power of the Crucified! For Thou hast drawn, O Lord, all things to Thyself, and when Thou hadst stretched forth Thy hands all the day to an unbelieving and contradicting people, the whole world received the sense of confessing Thy majesty to Thee. Thou hast drawn, O Lord, all things to Thyself, when in execration of the Jewish crime, all the elements uttered one sentence; when, the luminaries of heaven being obscured and the day turned into night, the earth also was shaken by unusual motions, and all creation denied itself to be further used by the impious [Jews]. Thou hast drawn, O Lord, all things to Thyself, since, the veil of the temple being rent, the Holy of holies departed from the unworthy high priests; that figure might be turned into truth, prophecy into manifestation, and the law into the Gospel.

[Lectio9]
Thou hast drawn, O Lord, all things to Thyself, that, what in the one temple of Judea was covered by shadowed significations, the devotion of all nations everywhere might celebrate in a full and open sacrament. For now both the order of Levites is more clear, and the dignity of the elders is more ample, and the anointing of the priests is more sacred: because Thy Cross is the fount of all blessings, it is the cause of all graces; through which unto the believing is given virtue out of infirmity, glory out of reproach, life out of death. Now also, the variety of carnal sacrifices ceasing, the one oblation of Thy body and blood fulfills all the differences of victims: since Thou art the true Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world; and Thou dost so perfect all mysteries in Thyself, that as there is one sacrifice for every victim, so out of every nation there may be one kingdom.
&teDeum

[Versum 0] 
V. Dícite in natiónibus. 
R. Quia Dóminus regnávit a ligno.

[Responsory Breve Tertia]
R.br. This sign of the Cross * shall be in heaven. 
R. This sign of the Cross * shall be in heaven. 
V. When the Lord cometh to judgment.
R. Shall be in heaven. 
&Gloria
R. This sign of the Cross * shall be in heaven.

[Responsory Breve Sexta]
R.br. We adore thee, O Christ, * and we bless thee. 
R. We adore thee, O Christ, * and we bless thee. 
V. Because by Thy Cross Thou hast redeemed the world.
R. And we bless thee.
&Gloria
R. We adore thee, O Christ, * and we bless thee.

[Responsory Breve Nona]
R.br. Let all the earth adore Thee: * And sing to Thee.
R. Let all the earth adore Thee: * And sing to Thee.
V. Let it sing a psalm to Thy name, O Lord.
R. And sing to Thee.
&Gloria
R. Let all the earth adore Thee: * And sing to Thee.

[Ant 3]
O blessed Cross, * which alone wast worthy to bear the King of heaven and the Lord, alleluia.
