[Rank]
Third day within the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/09-08

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew.  
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.  
_
!
From the Homily of Saint Jerome the Priest  
And after the transmigration of Babylon Jechonias begot Salathiel. If we should wish to place Jechonias at the end of the first fourteen, in the following there will not be fourteen, but thirteen. Let us therefore know that the former Jechonias is the same as Joacim, but the second is the son, not the father. Of whom the former is described; which by the fault of the scribes and the length of times has been confused among the Greeks and the Latins.

[Lectio8]
And Jacob begot Joseph. This place Julian Augustus objected to us of the dissonance of the Evangelists, why the Evangelist Matthew said that Joseph was the son of Jacob, and Luke called him the son of Heli, not understanding the custom of the Scriptures, that one is father to him according to nature, the other according to the law. For we know that this was commanded by Moses, God ordering, that if a brother or kinsman should die without children, another brother of his should take the wife to raise up seed to the brother or kinsman. Joseph the husband of Mary: when thou hearest either, let not the suspicion of marriage arise in thee, but remember the custom of the Scriptures, that the betrothed are called husbands, and the betrothed wives.

[Lectio9]
And from the transmigration of Babylon unto Christ fourteen generations. Number from Jechonias unto Joseph, and thou wilt find thirteen generations. The fourteenth generation therefore shall be counted in Christ Himself. Now the generation of Christ was in this wise. Let the diligent reader seek and say: Since Joseph is not the father of the Lord Saviour, what does the order of generation deduced unto Joseph pertain to the Lord? To whom we shall answer first, that it is not the custom of the Scriptures that the order of women be woven in the generation: next, that Joseph and Mary were of one tribe, whence by the law he was compelled to take her as a kinswoman:
&teDeum
