[Officium]
Saint Joseph of Cupertino, Confessor

[Ant 1]
I am dead * and my life is hid with Christ in God.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst dispose to draw all things to Thy only-begotten Son exalted from the earth: perfect propitiously; that by the merits and example of Thy seraphic Confessor Joseph, being elevated above all earthly desires, we may merit to come to Him:
$Qui tecum

[Lectio1]
From the second Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!2 Cor 4:6-11
God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the face of Christ Jesus. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency may be of the power of God, and not of us. In all things we suffer tribulation, but are not distressed; we are straitened, but are not destitute; We suffer persecution, but are not forsaken; we are cast down, but we perish not: Always bearing about in our body the mortification of Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in our bodies. For we who live are always delivered unto death for Jesus’ sake; that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in our mortal flesh.

[Lectio2]
!2 Cor 5:1-8
For we know that if our earthly house of this habitation be dissolved, that we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in heaven. For in this also we groan, desiring to be clothed upon with our habitation that is from heaven: Yet so that we be found clothed, not naked. For we also, who are in this tabernacle, do groan, being burdened; because we would not be unclothed, but clothed upon, that that which is mortal may be swallowed up by life. Now He that maketh us for this very thing is God, who hath given us the pledge of the Spirit. Therefore having always confidence, knowing that, while we are in the body, we are absent from the Lord: (For we walk by faith, and not by sight.) But we are confident, and have a good will to be absent rather from the body, and to be present with the Lord.

[Lectio3]
!2 Cor 12:1-9
If I must glory (it is not expedient indeed), but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ above fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not, or out of the body, I know not: God knoweth), such a one caught up to the third heaven. And I know such a man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I know not: God knoweth): That he was caught up into paradise, and heard secret words, which it is not granted to man to utter. For such a one I will glory; but for myself I will glory nothing, but in my infirmities. For though I should have a mind to glory, I shall not be foolish; for I will say the truth. But I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth in me, or any thing he heareth from me. And lest the greatness of the revelations should exalt me, there was given me a sting of my flesh, an angel of Satan, to buffet me. For which thing thrice I besought the Lord, that it might depart from me: And He said to me: My grace is sufficient for thee: for power is made perfect in infirmity. Gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may dwell in me.

[Lectio4]
Joseph of Cupertino, a town in the Salentine peninsula of the diocese of Nardò, was born in the year of restored salvation one thousand six hundred and three of pious parents there, and being forestalled by the love of God, he passed his childhood and youth with the greatest simplicity and innocence of manners, and, having most patiently endured a troublesome disease, being delivered by the help of the Virgin Mother of God, he gave himself wholly to works of piety and to the cultivation of the virtues; and that he might join himself more intimately to God calling him to greater things, he resolved to give his name to the seraphic Order. After various events, being at length made partaker of his desire, he was numbered among the Conventual Minors in the convent of Grotella, first among the lay brothers on account of his ignorance of letters, then among the clerics by divine disposition. Initiated into the priesthood after solemn vows, he proposed to himself a more perfect manner of life. Wherefore, having immediately renounced all worldly affections and earthly things almost necessary for life, he afflicted his body with hair-shirts, scourges, chains, and finally with every kind of austerities and pains; but he sweetly nourished his spirit with the assiduity of holy prayer and most lofty contemplation. Hence it came to pass that the charity of God, which was already poured forth in his heart from his earliest age, shone forth day by day in a wonderful and plainly singular manner.

[Lectio5]
His most ardent charity shone forth chiefly in the sweetest ecstasies toward God and the stupendous raptures with which he was frequently affected. But it is marvellous that, with his mind alienated from the senses, obedience alone immediately recalled him from ecstasy. This virtue indeed he pursued with singular zeal, being accustomed to say that he was led about by it as a blind man, and that he would rather die than not obey. But he so emulated the poverty of the seraphic Patriarch that, when near death, he was truly able to assert to his prelate that he had nothing which, after the manner of religious, he might resign. And so, dead to the world and to himself, he manifested the life of Jesus in his flesh, which, while in some it felt from foulness an obscene shame, breathed forth from itself a prodigious odour, a sign of that most pure purity which, with the unclean spirit long striving in vain to obscure it by most vehement temptations, he preserved uninjured, both by the strict custody of the senses, and by the continual mortification of the body, and finally by the special protection of the most pure Virgin Mary, whom he was accustomed to call his mother, and whom he venerated with the intimate affection of his heart as a most sweet mother, and desired that she should be venerated by others, so that with her patronage, as he himself said, they might obtain all good things.

[Lectio6]
This solicitude of the blessed Joseph proceeded from his charity toward his neighbour; for he burned with so great a zeal for souls that he most urgently procured the salvation of all by every means. Extending likewise his charity to his neighbour, whether poor, or sick, or afflicted with any other tribulation, as far as lay in him, he refreshed him. Nor were they alien from his charity who assailed him with rebukes, reproaches, and injuries of every kind; for he received such things with the same patience, meekness, and cheerfulness of countenance with which he shone amid so many and so great vicissitudes, while by the command either of the superiors of the Order or of the holy Inquisition he was compelled to wander and be turned this way and that. Although not only the people but also princes admired his singular sanctity and heavenly charisms, nevertheless he was of such humility that, accounting himself a great sinner, he earnestly besought God that He would remove from him His illustrious gifts, but he besought men that they would cast his dead body into that place where the memory of him would be utterly obliterated. But God, who setteth the humble on high, and who had most abundantly adorned His servant while he lived with heavenly wisdom, prophecy, the searching of hearts, the grace of healings, and other gifts, also rendered his death precious in the place and time which he himself had previously foretold, in the sixty-first year of his age, at Osimo in Piceno, and his sepulchre glorious. Finally him, shining also after death with miracles, Benedict the Fourteenth enrolled in the catalogue of the Blessed, Clement the Thirteenth in that of the Saints. But Clement the Fourteenth, of the same Order, extended his Office and Mass to the universal Church.

[Lectio94]
Joseph of Cupertino, born of pious parents, as a youth distinguished by chaste manners, was numbered among the Conventual Minors in the convent of Grotella first among the lay brothers, on account of his ignorance of letters, then among the clerics by divine disposition. Initiated into the priesthood, he afflicted his body with hair-shirts, scourges, and every kind of austerities; but he nourished his spirit with the assiduous food of holy prayer, whereby it came to pass that he was called by God to the degree of most lofty contemplation. Distinguished by obedience and poverty, he cultivated chastity above all, and, having overcome great temptations, preserved it uninjured. He pursued the Virgin Mary with wonderful love, and shone with great charity toward the poor. He was of such humility that, accounting himself a great sinner, he earnestly besought God that He would remove from him His illustrious gifts. By the command of the superiors of the Order or of the holy Inquisition he traversed many regions; at length, at Osimo in Piceno, in the sixty-first year of his age, he flew to heaven.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 22:1-14
At that time: Jesus spoke to the chief priests and the Pharisees in parables, saying: The kingdom of heaven is likened to a king, who made a marriage for his son. And the rest.
_
Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
!Bk. ii. Horn. 38, 9
Dearly beloved brethren, ye have already entered, at the Lord's bidding, into the house where the marriagefeast is being held, that is to say, into the Holy Church, and look ye well to it, that when the King cometh in to see the guests, he see nothing amiss in your soul's wedding-garment. For indeed it is with great searchings of heart that we are behoven to consider that which so soon cometh. “ And when the King came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding-garment.” Dearly beloved brethren, what are we to think is signified by this wedding garment Is it baptism or is it faith? But without baptism, or without faith, who could be seated at the marriage-feast? He that believeth not would still be without the house. What then, except love, must we understand by the wedding-garment He who hath faith and is in the Holy Church, but hath not charity, cometh in unto the wedding indeed, but hath not a wedding-garment. And charity is well called the wedding -garment, for it is the garment wherewithal our Maker decked Himself when He came to wed the Church unto Himself.

[Lectio8]
It was the work of God's love alone that His Only - begotten Son should wed Himself unto the souls of the elect. Whence indeed John saith “God so loved the world, that He gave His Only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.” (iii. 16.) He therefore Whom love brought among men, showeth that the same love is His wedding-garment. Each one therefore of you who is in the Church and believeth in God, hath already come in unto the marriage-feast, but if he keep not the grace of charity, he is come in thither not having a weddinggarment. In sooth, my brethren, if one be asked to an earthly marriage, he changeth his attire, to show even by his garments that he rejoiceth in the joy of the Bride and Bridegroom, and he would be ashamed to appear in unseemly raiment among the guests that are feasting and making merry. We are come unto God's marriagefeast, and we make pretence to change the vesture of our hearts. There is joy among the angels when the elect are taken to heaven. With what face shall we look upon this spiritual feast if we come in thither not having charity, the only wedding-garment wherein we can appear comely

[Lectio9]
We must know that as every garment is woven upon two beams, an upper and a lower, so love is bound unto two commandments, the one bidding us to love God, and the other to love our neighbour. For thus is it written “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the Prophets.” (Matth. xxii. 37-39-) In the which we are to see that bounds are set to that love wherewith we are to love our neighbour, for it is said “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” But to the love wherewith we are to love God are set no bounds, for it is said “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.” A man is not commanded to what point he is to love God, but from what point, even as it is said, “with all” for he only truly loveth God, who leaveth nothing for himself. We are behoven therefore to keep two commandments touching love, if we would be seen at the marriage with a wedding-garment.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
The Lord showed me * a river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb.

[Ant 3]
I count * all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord.
