[Officium]
Saint Januarius, Bishop, and Companions, Martyrs  

[Name]
Januarius and companions

[Lectio4]
Januarius, bishop of Benevento, when Diocletian and Maximian were raging against the Christians, was brought to Nola before Timothy, president of Campania, on account of the profession of the Christian faith. There, his constancy having been variously tried, he was cast into a burning furnace, and came forth so unharmed that the flame did not even violate his garment or a hair. Hence the president, inflamed with anger, commands the body of the Martyr to be stretched until the joints of the nerves and limbs should be dissolved. Meanwhile Festus his deacon and Desiderius the lector, having been seized and bound, are dragged together with the bishop before the president’s chariot to Puteoli, and are cast together into the same prison in which Sosius of Misenum and Proculus the deacon of Puteoli, Eutyches and Acutius laymen, condemned to the beasts, were being held.

[Lectio5]
On the following day all were exposed to the wild beasts in the amphitheatre; which, forgetting their natural fierceness, prostrated themselves at the feet of Januarius. Timothy, attributing this to magical incantations, when he had pronounced the sentence of death upon the Martyrs of Christ, was suddenly deprived of his eyesight, and soon after, by the prayer of the blessed Januarius, received his sight; by which miracle nearly five thousand men embraced the faith of Christ. But the ungrateful judge, rendered no milder by the benefit, but driven into rage by the conversion of so great a multitude, and fearing especially the decrees of the princes, ordered the holy Bishop with his companions to be struck with the sword.

[Lectio6]
The neighbouring cities, each according to its own devotion of adopting for itself a certain patron among them before God, took care that their bodies should be buried. The Neapolitans, by divine admonition, took up the body of Januarius; which, first translated to Benevento, thence to the monastery of Montevergine, finally to Naples and deposited in the principal church, became famous by many miracles. But that is especially to be remembered, that he extinguished the globes of flames formerly bursting forth from Mount Vesuvius, bringing the fear of devastation not only to neighbouring but even to distant regions. That also is remarkable, that his blood, which is preserved congealed in a glass ampulla, when it is placed in the sight of the head of the same Martyr, is seen to liquefy and boil in a wonderful manner, just as if freshly poured out, even to these times.

[Lectio94]
Januarius, bishop of Benevento, when Diocletian and Maximian were raging against the Christians, was in vain tried with fire and the rack by Timothy, president of Campania, on account of the profession of the Christian faith. Soon after, bound together with Festus his deacon and Desiderius the lector, he is dragged before the president’s chariot to Puteoli, and on the following day with his companions, to whom were added Sosius of Misenum, Proculus the deacon of Puteoli, Eutyches and Acutius laymen, is exposed to the beasts. But when these had been harmless to them, and nearly five thousand men had embraced the faith of Christ, the president, driven into rage, ordered the holy Bishop with his companions to be struck with the sword. Christians took care that their bodies should be buried. The body of Januarius, first at Benevento, thence at the monastery of Montevergine, finally deposited in the principal church of Naples, became famous by many miracles. His blood, which is preserved in a glass ampulla, when it is placed in the sight of the head of the same Martyr, is seen to liquefy and boil in a wonderful manner even to these times.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 24:3-13
At that time: Jesus sitting on the mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying: Tell us when shall these things be? And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Hilary the Bishop
!Commentary on Matthew, chapter 24
The disciples ask the Lord when these things should come to pass, or what sign they should know of His coming and of the consummation of the world. And because these three things were asked in one, they are separated by distinct significations both of time and of understanding. Answer is therefore first given concerning the fall of the city (of Jerusalem), and they are confirmed by the truth of doctrine, lest any deceiver should be able to creep upon the ignorant; for there were to come even in their time those who would call themselves Christ. That therefore faith might be withdrawn from the pestilent lie, the admonition went before.

[Lectio8]
He therefore confirms them unto the endurance of sufferings, of flight, of scourging, of death and of public hatred against them for His name’s sake. And by these vexations indeed many shall be troubled, and, such great evils arising, shall be scandalized, and shall be stirred up even unto mutual hatred. And there shall be false prophets (One such false prophet was Nicolas, one of the original seven Deacons.), and shall pervert many by a feigned truth; and, iniquity abounding, charity shall grow cold.

[Lectio9]
But salvation is reserved for those that persevere unto the end; and then, the apostolic men being dispersed through all parts of the world, the truth of the Gospel shall be preached. And when the knowledge of the heavenly mystery shall have been brought in unto all, then the fall and end of Jerusalem shall press upon it; that the faith of the preaching may be followed by the punishment of the unbelievers and the fear of the overthrown city. These things therefore, as they had been foretold, were fulfilled upon it; and, the Apostles having been stoned, put to flight, and slain, it was consumed by famine, war and captivity. And then it was worthy not to be any longer, when, the preachers of Christ having been cast out, it showed itself unworthy of the preaching of God.
&teDeum
