[Officium]
Saints Cornelius, Pope, and Cyprian, Bishop, Martyrs

[Name]
Cornelius and Cyprian

[Oratio]
May the feast of the blessed Martyrs and Bishops Cornelius and Cyprian, protect us, O Lord, we beseech You, and may their holy prayer recommend us unto You.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Cornelius, a Roman, while holding the pontificate under the Emperors Gallus and Volusianus, together with Lucina, a most holy woman, transferred the bodies of the Apostles Peter and Paul from the catacombs to a more convenient place; and Lucina placed the body of Paul in her own estate on the Ostian Way, near that place where he had been struck with the sword; Cornelius deposited the body of the Prince of the Apostles not far from thence, where he had been crucified. When this was reported to the emperors, and that through the authority of the Pontiff many were becoming Christians, he is sent into exile to Centumcellae (Civitavecchia); where Saint Cyprian, bishop of Carthage, consoled him by letters.

[Lectio5]
Yet, when they frequently rendered this office of Christian charity one to the other, the Emperors taking it in the worse part, Cornelius is summoned to Rome as if guilty of high treason, is beaten with leaded scourges, and, being dragged to the statue of Mars, is commanded to sacrifice to it. When he detested that impiety, his head was cut off on the eighteenth of the Calends of October. Whose body the blessed Lucina, with the assistance of the clergy, buried in the sand-pit of her estate near the cemetery of Callistus (in 252). He lived in the pontificate about two years.

[Lectio6]
From the book of Saint Jerome the Priest on Ecclesiastical Writers
!Chapter 67
Cyprian, an African, first taught rhetoric gloriously. Thereafter, at the persuasion of the priest Caecilius, from whom he also received his surname, having become a Christian, he distributed all his substance to the poor. And not long after, being elected priest, he was also constituted bishop of Carthage. It is superfluous to weave an index of his genius, since his works are clearer (or more famous) clearer than the sun. He suffered under the princes Valerian and Gallienus, in the eighth persecution, on the same day on which Cornelius suffered at Rome, but not in the same year.

[Lectio94]
Cornelius, a Roman, while holding the pontificate under the Emperors Gallus and Volusianus, strongly resisted the schism of Novatian, and wrote several things with great charity concerning the lapsed; to whom there exist eight epistles from Saint Cyprian. In exile, at Centumcellae, worn out by hardships, he died a martyr. Cyprian, an African, first taught rhetoric gloriously; thereafter, at the persuasion of the priest Caecilius, from whom he also received his surname, having become a Christian, he distributed all his substance to the poor, and not long after, being elected priest, he was also constituted bishop of Carthage. And he himself, enduring many things in the schism of Novatus, strove with all his power to repair the damages inflicted upon the Church. But it is superfluous to weave an index of his genius, since his works are clearer than the sun. He suffered under the princes Valerian and Gallienus, in the eighth persecution.
&teDeum
