[Rank]
Sixth Day Within the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide C11

[Lectio4]
From the book of Saint Epiphanius, Bishop, Against Heresies
!Book 3, Heresy 78, after the middle.
The blessed Mother of God, Mary, is signified by Eve, who in a figure received that she should be called the Mother of the Living. For she was called the Mother of the Living after she had heard these words: "Earth (dust) thou art, and into earth (dust) shalt thou return", and this after the transgression (in the Garden). And it is certainly marvelous that after the transgression she should receive this great name (title.) And indeed, as far as pertains to sensible things, from that Eve all the generation of men has been drawn upon the earth: but here truly from Mary this life has been born for the world, that she might bring forth the Living One, and Mary become the Mother of the Living. In a figure (or a riddle beforehand in Eve), therefore, Mary was called the Mother of the Living.


[Lectio5]
Unto Eve it was given to cover the sensible body (with skins) on account of sensible nakedness: but to Mary it was given by God that she should bear for us the Lamb and sheep, and that from the glory of that Lamb and sheep there should be made for us, as from a fleece, in wisdom through His power, a garment of incorruptibility (lambskin being grace or baptismal garment). Eve also was made the cause of death for men: for through her death entered into the world: but Mary the cause of life, through whom life was begotten for us, and through her the Son of God came into the world: and where sin abounded, there did grace more abound: and whence death was brought in, thence also life proceeded, that life might be made in place of death: and He who through a woman was made life for us might exclude the death brought in from a woman. And since there Eve, while she was still yet a virgin, transgressed through disobedience: on the contrary through a Virgin the obedience of grace was made, and His coming in the flesh from heaven and eternal life having been announced.

[Lectio6]
Of Mary is understood (if I may be permitted to say this) what is written of the Church: 'A man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they shall be two in one flesh'. Now the holy Apostle says: 'This is a great sacrament, but I speak in Christ and in the Church.' And see the accurate propriety of speech of the Scriptures, that concerning Adam indeed it said: 'He formed': but concerning Eve, that she was not formed, but 'built'. For 'He took', it says, 'one of his ribs, and built it into a wife for him'.  Whereby it shows that the Lord indeed formed for Himself a body out of Mary, yet from that very rib the Church was built, in that His side was pierced and opened, and the Sacrament (mysteries) of blood and water became the prices of redemption.

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew.  
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.  
_
Homily of Saint Augustine the Bishop.  
!Book 2 of the Harmony of the Evangelists, Chapter 1.  
Matthew the Evangelist began thus: 'The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham'. By which beginning of his he sufficiently shows that he has undertaken to narrate the generation of Christ according to the flesh. For according to this Christ is the Son of man: which He Himself also most often calls Himself, recommending to us what He mercifully deigned to be for us. For that heavenly and eternal generation, according to which He is the Only-begotten Son of God before all creation, because all things were made by Him, is so ineffable, that what was said by the Prophet is to understood of it('s ineffability): 'Who shall declare His generation?'  (Isa. liii. 8.)

[Lectio8]
Matthew therefore follows out the human generation of Christ, commemorating the generators from Abraham, whom he leads to Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus. For it was not right that he should think him to be separated from the marriage of Mary on this account, that she did not bear Christ from his embrace [marital act], but as a virgin. For by this example it is magnificently intimated to the faithful who are married that, that even with continence [sexual abstinence] preserved by equal consent, a marriage can remain and also be called marriage, not by the intermingling of the sex of the body, but by the affection of the mind it is kept: and this more especially, since they were able to have a Son born unto them without any carnal embrace, which is to be employed solely for the begetting of children.

[Lectio9]
!Chapter 2.
Now when the Apostle Paul evidently says that Christ is of the seed of David according to the flesh [St. Paul says this in Romans 1:3]; we ought by no means to doubt that Mary herself also derived some consanguinity from the stock of David. It is also not passed over in silence that she was a woman with Priestly blood, by (Saint) Luke indicating that she was cousin to Elizabeth, [Luke 1:36] who he says was of the daughters of Aaron. It is most firmly to be held that the flesh of Christ was propagated from both lineages, namely of kings and of priests; in which persons among that people of the Hebrews the mystical unction also was prefigured, that is, the chrism, from which the name of Christ shines forth, so long beforehand also preannounced by that most evident signification.
&teDeum
