[Officium]
The Impression of the Stigmata of Saint Francis

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. This confessor of the Lord, whom the peoples
Throughout the world devoutly praise and honor,
On this day joyfully merited
The blessed wounds of Christ.
_
Devout, prudent, humble, and chaste,
He led a temperate life, free of stain,
For as long as the breath of life
Gave animation to his mortal limbs.
_
For the sake of his outstanding merit, often
The ailing bodies that lay stricken far and wide,
Once the power of disease is broken,
Are restored to health.
_
And so our choir sings out to him
its dutiful praise and celebrates his palms [victories],
that we may be aided by his holy prayers
through every age.
_
To Him be salvation, glory and power,
who, shining upon the throne of heaven,
governs the whole course of the world,
Threefold and one.
Amen.

[Versum 1]
V. Lord, Thou didst mark Thy servant Francis. 
R. With the marks of our Redemption. 

[Oratio]
O Lord Jesus Christ, who, when the world was growing cold, in order to inflame our hearts with the fire of Thy love, didst renew in the flesh of the most blessed Francis the sacred Stigmata of Thy passion: grant propitiously; that by his merits and prayers we may continually bear the cross, and bring forth worthy fruits of penance:
$Qui vivis

[Lectio1]
From the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
!Gal 5:25-26; 6:1-6
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be made desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another. Brethren, and if a man be overtaken in any fault, you, who are spiritual, instruct such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another’s burdens; and so you shall fulfil the law of Christ. For if any man think himself to be something, whereas he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. But let every one prove his own work, and so he shall have glory in himself only, and not in another. For every one shall bear his own burden. And let him that is instructed in the word, communicate to him that instructeth him, in all good things.

[Lectio2]
Gal 6:7-13
Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For what things a man shall sow, those also shall he reap. For he that soweth in his flesh, of the flesh also shall reap corruption. But he that soweth in the spirit, of the spirit shall reap life everlasting. And in doing good, let us not fail. For in due time we shall reap, not failing. Therefore, whilst we have time, let us work good to all men, but especially to those who are of the household of the faith. See what a letter I have written to you with my own hand. For as many as desire to please in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised, only that they may not suffer the persecution of the cross of Christ. For neither they themselves who are circumcised, keep the law; but they will have you to be circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.

[Lectio3]
Gal 6:14-18
But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. And whosoever shall follow this rule, peace on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. From henceforth let no man be troublesome to me; for I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus in my body. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen.

[Lectio4]
From the Commentaries of Saint Bonaventure the Bishop
!Legend of Saint Francis, chapter 13
The truly faithful servant and minister of Christ, Francis, two years before he rendered up his spirit to heaven, when in a lofty place apart, which is called Mount Alverna, he had begun a forty days’ fast in honour of the Archangel Michael, being more abundantly than usual overflowed with the sweetness of heavenly contemplation and kindled with a more ardent flame of heavenly desires, began to feel more fully the gifts of the heavenly infusions. While therefore he was being borne upward to God by the seraphic ardours of desires, and by compassionate tenderness was being transformed into Him who by excessive charity was pleased to be crucified; one morning about the feast of the Exaltation of the holy Cross, while praying on the side of the mountain, he saw as it were the likeness of one Seraph, having six wings both shining and fiery, descending from the height of the heavens. Who, arriving by a most swift flight at a place in the air near to the man of God, appeared not only winged but also crucified; having his hands and feet stretched out and fixed to a cross, but the wings in a wonderful manner disposed on either side, so that he raised two above his head, extended two for flying, and with the remaining two veiled his whole body by embracing it. Seeing this he was vehemently astonished, and a joy mixed with sorrow entered his mind, while in the gracious aspect of him who appeared to him so wonderfully and familiarly he conceived a certain excessive gladness, and the dire fixing to the cross which he beheld pierced his soul with the sword of compassionate sorrow.

[Lectio5]
He understood indeed, being taught interiorly by him who also appeared exteriorly, that, although the infirmity of the passion could by no means agree with the immortality of the seraphic spirit, yet such a vision had been presented to his sight, in order that the friend of Christ might know beforehand that he was to be wholly transformed into the express likeness of Christ Jesus crucified, not by the martyrdom of the flesh but by the burning of the soul. Then they held together some sweet and intimate converse, as of a man with his friend, and as the vision passed from him, he inflamed his mind interiorly with seraphic ardour; but exteriorly it marked his flesh with an image conformed to the Crucified, as if a certain sealing impression had followed after the liquefying power of the fire which went before. For immediately in his hands and feet there began to appear the marks of nails, the heads of them appearing in the lower part of the hands and the upper part of the feet, and their points existing on the opposite side. His right side also, as if transfixed by a lance, was covered with a red scar, which often, pouring forth sacred blood, sprinkled his tunic and breeches.

[Lectio6]
After therefore the new man Francis shone forth by a new and stupendous miracle, when he appeared distinguished by a singular privilege not granted in past ages, namely, being adorned with the sacred Stigmata, he descended from the mountain bearing with him the image of the Crucified, not figured by the hand of an artificer on tables of stone or wood, but described by the finger of the living God in the members of flesh. Since the seraphic man knew most well that it was good to hide the sacrament (Sign) of the king (Tobit xii. 7,), being conscious of the royal secret, he concealed those sacred seals as far as he could. But because it is of God to reveal the great things which He does for His own glory, the Lord Himself, who had secretly impressed those seals, openly showed certain miracles through them; so that the hidden and marvellous power of those Stigmata might become manifest by the clarity of the signs. - Moreover, this admirable thing, so greatly attested and exalted with special praises and favours in pontifical diplomas, Pope Benedict the Eleventh wished to be celebrated with an anniversary solemnity; which afterwards Pope Paul the Fifth, the Supreme Pontiff, in order that the hearts of the faithful might be inflamed to the love of Christ crucified, propagated to the universal Church.

[Lectio94]
Francis appeared distinguished by a singular privilege not granted in past ages, when, adorned with the sacred Stigmata, he descended from the mountain, bearing with him the image of the Crucified, not figured by the hand of an artificer on tables of stone or wood, but described by the finger of the living God in the members of flesh. Since the seraphic man knew most well that it was good to hide the sacrament of the king, being conscious of the royal secret, he concealed those sacred seals as far as he could. But because it is of God to reveal the great things which He does for His own glory, the Lord Himself, who had secretly impressed those seals, openly showed certain miracles through them; so that the hidden and marvellous power of those Stigmata might become manifest by the clarity of the signs. - Moreover, this admirable thing, so greatly attested and exalted with special praises and favours in pontifical diplomas, Pope Benedict the Eleventh wished to be celebrated with an anniversary solemnity; which afterwards Pope Paul the Fifth, the Supreme Pontiff, in order that the hearts of the faithful might be inflamed to the love of Christ crucified, propagated to the universal Church.
&teDeum

[Responsory8]
R. But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ;
* By whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.
V. For I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus in my body.
R. By whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.
&Gloria
R. By whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.

[Hymnus Laudes]
v. O Jesus, most exalted crown,
And more sublime truth,
Who renderest an everlasting reward
To Thy confessing servant:
_
Grant to the supplicating assembly,
At his petition,
The remission of our guilty crime,
By breaking the bond of our chain.
_
The season of the year having returned,
The day hath shone forth with light,
On which this Saint departed from the body
Among the stars.
_
He, reckoning the vain joys of the earth,
And its splendid possessions,
As polluted with filth,
Rejoicing possesseth heavenly things.
_
Continually confessing Thee,
O Christ, most pious King,
He trampled upon the arts of the demons,
And the cruel prince of hell.
_
Illustrious in virtue and faith,
Diligent in his confession,
Bearing his fasting limbs,
He obtaineth the heavenly banquet.
_
Therefore, most pious One,
We all as suppliants pray Thee:
That for his sake
Thou wouldst remit our due punishments.
_
* Everlasting glory be to the Father,
And to the only Son of the Father,
And to the Holy Paraclete,
Forever through every age.
Amen.
