[Officium]
Saint Nicholas of Tolentino, Confessor

[Name]
Nicolaus

[Lectio4]
Nicholas, called of Tolentino from his long dwelling in that city, was born in the town of Saint Angelo in Piceno of pious parents; who, having gone to Bari for the sake of a vow out of desire for children, and there confirmed by Saint Nicholas concerning future offspring, named the son whom they received after him. He from infancy gave a specimen of many virtues, but of abstinence in the first place. For when scarcely seven years old, imitating the blessed Nicholas himself, he began to fast on many days of the week; and afterwards retained that custom, content with bread and water alone.

[Lectio5]
At adult age, already enrolled in the clerical militia and made a canon, when on a certain day he had heard a preacher of the Order of Hermits of Saint Augustine speaking of the contempt of the world, inflamed by that discourse, he immediately entered the same Order. In which he cultivated so exact a manner of religious life, that, taming his body with rough clothing, stripes and an iron chain, and abstaining from flesh and almost every relish, he shone before others by charity, humility, patience and the other virtues.

[Lectio6]
He did not intermit the assiduous study of praying, although variously vexed by the snares of Satan and sometimes beaten with scourges. At length, six months before his death, he heard each night an angelic concert; with the sweetness of which, already tasting beforehand the joys of paradise, he frequently repeated that saying of the Apostle: I desire to be dissolved, and to be with Christ. At last he foretold to the brethren the day of his death, which was the fourth of the Ides of September.(1306.) He shone also with many miracles after death; which being duly and orderly known, he was enrolled by Pope Eugene the Fourth in the number of the Saints.

[Lectio94]
Nicholas, called of Tolentino from his long dwelling in that city, was born in the town of Saint Angelo in Piceno of pious parents, who obtained him from God by a vow through the intercession of Saint Nicholas. As a boy he gave a specimen of many virtues, of abstinence in the first place. Thereafter enrolled in the clerical militia and made a canon, when on a certain day he had heard a preacher of the Order of Hermits of Saint Augustine speaking of the contempt of the world, inflamed by that discourse, he immediately entered the same Order; in which he cultivated so exact a manner of religious life, that by fasting, rough clothing, stripes and a rough chain he tamed his body, and shone before all the other virtues. He did not intermit the assiduous study of praying, although variously vexed by the snares of Satan and sometimes beaten with scourges. Six months before his death, each night he heard an angelic concert, and at length, the day of his death having been foretold, he fell asleep in the Lord. Famous for miracles in life and after death, he was enrolled by Eugene the Fourth in the number of the Saints.
&teDeum
