[Rank]
Fourth Day within the Octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary;;Semiduplex;;2;;ex Sancti/09-08

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Bernard the Abbot.
!Sermon on chapter 12 of the Apocalypse, before the middle.  
The Lord hath done a new thing upon the earth, that a woman should enclose a man, and none other than Christ, of whom it is said: Behold a man, the Orient [Dayspring] is His name. [Zech 6:12] He hath also done a new thing in heaven, that a woman should appear clothed with the sun.  Finally, she both crowned Him, and in turn merited to be crowned by Him. Go forth, ye daughters of Sion, and see King Solomon in the diadem wherewith his mother crowned him. [Canticles 3:2] But of this elsewhere. Meanwhile rather enter in, and see the Queen in the diadem wherewith her Son crowned her. Upon her head, he says [St. John], a crown of twelve stars.

[Lectio5]
A head clearly worthy to be crowned with stars, which, shining far more brightly than they, adorneth them rather than is adorned by them. Why should not stars crown her whom the sun clotheth? As the days of spring, he saith, the flowers of roses and the lilies of the valleys surrounded her. (Ecclus. 1, 8.) Truly the left hand of the Bridegroom is under her head, and already His right hand embraceth her. (Cant. ii, 6) Who can estimate those gems? Who can name the stars of which the royal diadem of Mary is composed?

[Lectio6]
What, then, shines like a star in the generation of Mary? Plainly that she arose from kings, that she is of the seed of Abraham, that she is of the noble stock of David. If this seems little, add that she is known to have been granted divinely to that generation on account of a singular privilege of sanctity, that she was promised long before from heaven to those same fathers, that she was prefigured by mystical miracles, that she was foretold by prophetic oracles. For her the priestly rod prefigured when it blossomed without root; her Gideon's fleece, when it grew wet in the midst of a dry floor; her the Eastern gate in the vision of Ezekiel, which was never opened to anyone.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 1:1-17
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac begot Jacob. And the rest.  
_
Homily of Saint Hilary the Bishop.  
!Comment. on Matt. can. 1.  
The course which Matthew had set forth in the order of royal succession, and which Luke counts through the priestly order, both signify in the Lord the agnation [kinship] of both tribes, and establish the degree of right generation: because the alliance of the priestly and royal tribes, entered into through David by marriage, is already confirmed by lineage from Salathiel unto Zorobabel. And thus, while Matthew recounts the paternal origin, which proceeded from Judah, but Luke teaches the lineage received through Nathan from the tribe of Levi, each on his part proved for our Lord Jesus Christ, who is eternal King and Priest, the glory of both lineages even in His earthly birth.

[Lectio8]
But that the nativity of Joseph rather than of Mary is recounted matters nothing: for the kinship of the whole tribe is the same and one. Moreover, both Matthew and Luke have given an example, calling fathers in turn, not so much by lineage as by tribe: because, having begun from one tribe, it is contained under the family of one succession and origin. For when the Son of David and of Abraham was to be shown, Matthew thus began: The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
