[Officium]
Saint Thomas of Villanova, Bishop and Confessor

[Ant 1]
He hath dispersed, * he hath given to the poor: his justice remaineth for ever and ever.

[Oratio]
O God, who didst adorn the blessed Pontiff Thomas with the virtue of singular mercy toward the poor: we beseech Thee; that by his intercession Thou wouldst graciously pour forth the riches of Thy mercy upon all who call upon Thee.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Thomas was born in the town of Fuenllana of the diocese of Toledo in Spain in the year of the Lord one thousand four hundred and eighty-eight. From excellent parents, at the beginning of life, he received piety and singular mercy toward the poor. Of which even as a boy he gave many examples; but that especially noble one, that, in order to clothe the naked, he more than once stripped himself of his own garments. Childhood being finished, at Alcalá, whither he had been sent that as a student in the greater college of Saint Ildephonsus he might give attention to letters, being recalled by the death of his father, he dedicated the whole inheritance to the support of needy virgins; and immediately returned to the same place, and, the course of sacred theology being completed, he so excelled in doctrine that, being commanded to ascend the chair in the same university, he wonderfully explained philosophical and theological questions, meanwhile by assiduous prayers most vehemently begging from the Lord the knowledge of the Saints and the right rule of life and manners. Wherefore, by divine instinct, he embraced the institute of the Hermits of Saint Augustine.

[Lectio5]
Having professed religion, he excelled in all the virtues and ornaments of a religious man, most highly conspicuous in humility, patience, continence, but especially in most ardent charity, amid various and assiduous labours always intent with unconquered spirit upon prayer and the meditation of divine things. Being commanded to undertake the burden of preaching, as one excelling in holiness and doctrine, by the inspiring of heavenly grace he led countless souls out of the mire of vices into the way of salvation. Afterwards being set over the governing of the brethren, he joined prudence, equity and gentleness with equal diligence and severity; so much so that in many places he either strengthened or restored the ancient discipline of his order.

[Lectio6]
Being designated archbishop of Granada, with wonderful humility and constancy he refused the distinguished office. But not long after, compelled by the authority of superiors, he undertook the government of the church of Valencia; which for nearly eleven years he so ruled that he fulfilled the parts of a most holy and most vigilant pastor. Moreover, the accustomed manner of living being in no wise changed, he indulged much more in insatiable charity, when he dispersed the ample revenues of the church upon the needy, not even a bed being left to himself: for the one on which he was lying when he was called to heaven he had as a loan from the same person to whom a little before he had given it in the place of an alms. He fell asleep in the Lord on the sixth of the Ides of September, aged sixty-eight years. God willed the sanctity of His servant to be attested by miracles both while still living and thereafter after death; especially when the granary, thoroughly emptied by the distribution of wheat to the poor, was suddenly found full, and when at his sepulchre a dead boy revived. Shining with these and not a few other signs, Alexander the Seventh, Supreme Pontiff, enrolled him in the number of the Saints.

[Lectio94]
Thomas, born in the town of Fuenllana of the diocese of Toledo in Spain, from good parents, at the beginning of life, received piety and singular mercy toward the poor, of which throughout the whole course of his life he gave illustrious examples. For as a boy, in order to clothe the naked, he more than once stripped himself of his own garments; as a youth, after the death of his father, he dedicated the whole inheritance to the support of needy virgins. When, the course of theology being completed, by divine instinct he had embraced the institute of the Hermits of Saint Augustine, adorned with all virtues, he excelled especially in charity toward the poor and sinners, whom he strove to lead out of the mire of vices. But his mercy especially shone forth when, being called by obedience to govern the church of Valencia, he fulfilled the duties of a most vigilant pastor and dispersed the ample revenues of the church upon the needy, not even a bed being left to himself. He fell asleep in the Lord on the sixth of the Ides of September, aged sixty-eight years.
&teDeum

[Ant 2]
All the church of the Saints * shall declare his alms.
