[Officium]
Saints Cosmas and Damian, Martyrs

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God: that we who keep the birthday of Thy holy Martyrs Cosmas and Damian may, by their intercessions, be delivered from all evils that threaten us.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Cosmas and Damian, Arabian brothers, born in the city of Aegea, noble physicians, under the emperors Diocletian and Maximian, healed even incurable diseases not more by the science of medicine than by the power of Christ. When the prefect Lysias had learned of their religion, he ordered them to be brought before him, and when, being questioned concerning their manner of life and the profession of their faith, they freely preached that they were both Christians and that the Christian faith is necessary for salvation, he commanded them to worship the gods; and if they should refuse, he threatened torments and a most bitter death.

[Lectio5]
But when he understood that he proposed these things to them in vain: “Bind,” he said, “the hands and feet of these men, and torture them with exquisite punishments.” When those who were executing the commands did so, Cosmas and Damian nevertheless persisted in their resolve. Wherefore, as they were bound, they are cast into the deep sea. From which when they had come forth safe and unbound, the prefect attributing the deed to magical arts, delivered them to prison, and on the following day ordered them to be brought forth and thrown into a burning pyre; where, when the flame fled from them, he wished them, having been variously and cruelly tortured, to be struck with the axe. And so, in the confession of Jesus Christ, they received the palm of martyrdom.

[Lectio94]
Cosmas and Damian, Arabian brothers, born in the city of Aegea, noble physicians, under the emperors Diocletian and Maximian, healed even incurable diseases not more by the science of medicine than by the power of Christ. When the prefect Lysias had learned of their religion, he ordered them to be brought before him, and when, being questioned concerning their manner of life and the profession of their faith, they freely preached that they were both Christians and that the Christian faith is necessary for salvation, he commanded them to worship the gods; and if they should refuse, he threatened torments and a most bitter death. But when he understood that he proposed these things to them in vain: “Bind,” he said, “the hands and feet of these men, and torture them with exquisite punishments.” When those who were executing the commands did so, Cosmas and Damian nevertheless persisted in their resolve. Wherefore, as they were bound, they are cast into the deep sea. From which when they had come forth safe and unbound, the prefect attributing the deed to magical arts, delivered them to prison, and on the following day ordered them to be brought forth and thrown into a burning pyre; where, when the flame fled from them, he wished them, having been variously and cruelly tortured, to be struck with the axe. And so, in the confession of Jesus Christ, they received the palm of martyrdom.
&teDeum
