[Officium]
On the Dedication of Saint Michael the Archangel

[Ant Matutinum]
The sea was shaken, * and the earth trembled, where the Archangel Michael was descending from heaven.;;8
Let us praise the Lord, * whom the Angels praise, whom the Cherubim and Seraphim proclaim Holy, Holy, Holy.;;10
The smoke of the incense * ascended in the sight of the Lord from the hand of the Angel.;;14
Michael the Archangel, * come to the aid of the people of God.;;18
Michael * the prefect of paradise, whom the citizens of the Angels honour.;;23
Glorious * didst thou appear in the sight of the Lord: therefore the Lord hath clothed thee with beauty.;;33
The Angel Archangel Michael, * the messenger of God for just souls, alleluia, alleluia.;;95
There was given to him * much incense, that he might offer it before the golden altar, which is before the eyes of the Lord.;;96
Many great things * of Michael the Archangel, who, strong in battle, made the victory.;;102

[Lectio4]
Sermon of Saint Gregory the Pope
!Homily 34 on the Gospels, before the middle
We say that there are nine orders of Angels, because namely we know them to be, the sacred scripture bearing witness: Angels, Archangels, Virtues, Powers, Principalities, Dominations, Thrones, Cherubim and Seraphim. For that there are Angels and Archangels almost all the pages of sacred scripture bear witness. But Cherubim and Seraphim, as is known, the books of the prophets often speak of. Four names of orders also the Apostle Paul enumerates to the Ephesians, saying: Above every Principality, and Power, and Virtue, and Domination. Who again writing to the Colossians, saith: Whether Thrones, or Powers, or Principalities, or Dominations. When therefore to those four which he said to the Ephesians the Thrones are joined, there are five orders; to which when Angels and Archangels, Cherubim and Seraphim are added, without doubt nine orders of Angels are found to be.

[Lectio5]
But it is to be known that the word Angels is a name of office, not of nature. For those holy Spirits of the heavenly fatherland are indeed always Spirits, but they can by no means always be called Angels; because only then are they Angels, when some things are announced through them. Whence also through the Psalmist it is said: Who maketh His Angels spirits; as if He should openly say: Who those whom He always has as Spirits, even when He shall will, He also maketh Angels. But those who announce the least things are called Angels; but those who announce the highest are called Archangels. Hence it is that not just any Angel, but Gabriel the Archangel is sent to the Virgin Mary. For to this ministry it was worthy that the highest Angel should come, who was announcing the highest of all. Who therefore are also counted by private names, that it may be signified by the words what they are also able to do in operation. For Michael means, Who is like God? But Gabriel, the Strength of God; and Raphael is said Medicine of God.

[Lectio6]
And as often as something of wonderful virtue is done, Michael is related to be sent; that from the very act and name it may be given to be understood that no one can do what God is able to do. Whence also that ancient enemy, who by pride desired to be like God, saying: I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of heaven, I will be like the Most High; while at the end of the world he shall be left in his own strength to be destroyed by the extreme punishment, is related to be about to fight with Michael the Archangel, as it is said through John: There was a battle with Michael the Archangel. To Mary also Gabriel is sent, who is named the Strength of God; for he was coming to announce Him who deigned to appear humble for the overthrowing of the aerial powers. Raphael also is interpreted, as we have said, the Medicine of God; because namely, while he touched the eyes of Tobias as it were by the office of curing, he wiped away the darkness of his blindness.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 18:1-10
At that time: The disciples came to Jesus, saying: Who, thinkest Thou, is the greater in the kingdom of heaven? And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Jerome the Priest
!Book 3 of the Commentary on chapter 18 of Matthew
After the finding of the stater, after the paying of the tribute, what meaneth the sudden question of the Apostles: Who, thinkest Thou, is the greater in the kingdom of heaven? Because they had seen the same tribute paid for Peter and the Lord, from the equality of the price they thought that Peter was preferred to all the Apostles, who in the paying of the tribute had been compared to the Lord; therefore they ask who is greater in the kingdom of heaven. And Jesus, seeing their thoughts, and understanding the causes of their error, willeth to heal the desire of glory by the strife of humility.

[Lectio8]
And if thy hand or thy foot scandalize thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee. It is necessary indeed that scandals come; nevertheless, woe to that man by whom that which is necessary to happen in the world, by his own fault happeneth to be done through himself. Therefore every affection is truncated and all relationship is cut off, lest through the occasion of piety each one of the believers be exposed to scandals. If, He saith, anyone is so joined to thee as a hand, a foot, an eye; and is useful and solicitous, and sharp to perceive, but maketh a scandal for thee, and because of the dissonance of morals draweth thee into hell: it is better that thou lack both his relationship and carnal advantages, lest while thou wishest to make gain of relatives and kin, thou have cause for ruins.

[Lectio9]
I say to you that their Angels in heaven always see the face of My Father. Above He had said that through the hand and foot and eye, all relationships and kinships which could make a scandal were to be cut off; therefore He tempers the austerity of the sentence with the subject precept, saying: See that ye despise not one of these little ones. Thus, He saith, I command severity, that I may teach clemency to be mingled therewith. Because their Angels in heaven always see the face of My Father. Great is the dignity of souls, that each single one hath from the origin of its nativity an Angel delegated to its custody. Whence we read in the Apocalypse of John: Write these things to the Angel of Ephesus, and of the rest of the churches. The Apostle also commandeth the heads of women to be veiled in the churches because of the Angels.
&teDeum
