[Officium]
Saint Linus, Pope and Martyr

[Name]
Linus

[Lectio4]
Linus the Pontiff, born at Volterra in Etruria, was the first after Peter to govern the Church. Whose faith and holiness were so great, that he not only cast out demons, but even recalled the dead to life. He wrote the acts of the blessed Peter, and those especially which were done by him against Simon Magus. He ordained that no woman should enter the church except with her head veiled. This Pontiff was beheaded for his constancy of faith, by the command of Saturninus, an impious and most ungrateful ex-consul, whose daughter he had freed from the vexation of demons. He was buried in the Vatican near the sepulchre of the Prince of the Apostles, on the ninth of the Calends of October. He sat eleven years, two months, twenty-three days, having created, twice in the month of December, fifteen bishops and eighteen priests.

[Lectio5]
From the Exposition of Saint Ambrose the Bishop on the one hundred and eighteenth Psalm
!Sermon 21
Princes have persecuted me without cause: and my heart hath been in awe [trembling] of Thy words. Well does the Martyr say this, that he endures the torments of persecutions unjustly; who has seized nothing, has violently oppressed no one, has shed no one’s blood, has thought no one’s marriage-bed ought to be violated; who owes nothing to the laws, and is compelled to endure heavier punishments than robbers; who speaks justly and is not heard; who speaks things full of salvation and is assailed for it, so that he may say: When I spoke to them, they fought against me without cause. Without cause therefore does he suffer persecution, who is assailed without crime; he is assailed as guilty when he is [rather] praiseworthy in such a confession; he is attacked as a sorcerer [or poisoner] who glories in the name of the Lord, since piety is the foundation of all virtues.

[Lectio6]
Truly is he assailed in vain, who is accused of impiety among the impious and infidel, when he is [rather] a teacher of the Faith [inFide vs Fide]. But he who is assailed without cause, he ought to be strong and constant; how then therefore has he added: And from Thy words my heart hath trembled? To tremble is of infirmity, of fear and of dread. But there is also an infirmity unto salvation, there is also the fear of the saints: Fear the Lord, all ye His saints; and, Blessed is the man who feareth the Lord. For what reason is he blessed? Because he is exceedingly delighted in [caring for] His commandments.

[Lectio94]
The Pontiff Linus, born at Volterra in Etruria, was the first after Peter to govern the Church. Whose faith and holiness were so great, that he not only cast out demons, but even recalled the dead to life. He wrote the deeds of blessed Peter, and especially those things which were done by him against Simon Magus. He decreed that no woman should enter the church, unless with a veiled head. This Pontiff was beheaded for his constancy of faith, by the command of Saturninus, an impious and most ungrateful ex-consul, whose daughter he had freed from the vexation of demons. He was buried in the Vatican near the tomb of the Prince of the Apostles, on the ninth of the calends of October. He sat for eleven years, two months, and twenty-three days, having created, twice in the month of December, fifteen bishops and eighteen priests.
&teDeum
