[Officium]
Saint Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist

[Oratio]
May we be helped, O Lord, by the prayers of the blessed Apostle and Evangelist Matthew: that what our own ability obtaineth not, may be granted unto us by his intercession.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Matthew, who is also Levi, Apostle and Evangelist, when he was sitting at the receipt of custom at Capharnaum, being called by Christ, immediately followed Him; whom also he received at a banquet with the rest of the disciples. After the resurrection of Christ, before he departed into the province which had fallen to him to preach, he first in Judea, on account of those who had believed from the circumcision, wrote the Gospel of Jesus Christ in Hebrew. Soon afterwards, having set out for Ethiopia, he preached the Gospel, and confirmed the preaching by many miracles.

[Lectio5]
Therefore by that miracle in the first place, by which he raised the daughter of the king from the dead, he converted the king her father and his wife with the entire province to the faith of Christ. The king being dead, Hirtacus, his successor, when he wished Iphigenia, the royal daughter, to be given to him in marriage, commanded Matthew, by whose work she had vowed her virginity to God and persevered in her holy purpose, to be slain while celebrating the mystery at the altar. Who on the eleventh of the calends of October crowned his apostolic office with the glory of martyrdom. Whose body, translated to Salerno, and afterwards buried in the church dedicated in his name, under the Supreme Pontiff Gregory the Seventh, is honored in the same place with a great concourse and piety of men.

[Lectio7]
A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 9:1-13
At that time: Jesus saw a man sitting in the custom-house, named Matthew, and He saith to him: Follow Me. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Jerome the Priest (at Bethlehem.)
!Book 1 of the Commentary on Matthew, chapter 9
The other Evangelists, on account of reverence and honor for Matthew, would not call him by his common name, but said, Levi; for indeed he had a double name. But Matthew himself (according to that which is said by Solomon: The just man is the first accuser of himself at the beginning of his speech; and in another place: Tell thou thy sins, that thou mayest be justified) nameth himself Matthew and a publican, that he might show to readers that no one ought to despair of salvation, if he be converted to better things, since he himself was suddenly changed from a publican into an Apostle.

[Lectio8]
Porphyry, and Julian Augustus, argue in this place either with the ignorance of a lying historian, or [argue against it] with the folly of those who immediately followed the Saviour, as if they [the Apostles] had followed without reason any man that [might have] called them; when such great mighty works and such great signs had preceded, which there is no doubt that the Apostles had seen before they believed. Certainly the very splendor and majesty of the hidden Divinity, which shone forth even in His human face, could draw those seeing Him to Himself from the first glance. For if this force is said to be in the magnet stone and in amber, that they join to themselves rings and straw and stubble; how much more could the Lord of all creatures draw to Himself those whom He called?

[Lectio9]
And it came to pass, as He was sitting at table in the house, behold many publicans and sinners coming, sat down with Jesus. They saw a publican, converted from sins to better things, to have found a place of penance; and on that account even they themselves do not despair of salvation. Neither indeed do they come to Jesus remaining in their former vices, as the Pharisees and scribes murmur, but doing penance, as the following word of the Lord signifies, saying: I will have mercy, and not sacrifice; for I am not come to call the just, but sinners. But the Lord went to the banquets of sinners, that He might have occasion of teaching, and might offer spiritual foods to His inviters.
&teDeum
