[Officium]
Saints Eustachius and Companions, Martyrs

[Name]
Eustache and his companions

[Lectio4]
Eustachius, who is also called Placidus, distinguished among the Romans by birth, wealth and military glory, under the emperor Trajan merited the title of master of the soldiers. But when on a certain occasion he was exercising himself in the chase and was pursuing a fleeing stag of marvellous size, he suddenly saw between the horns of the standing beast a lofty and shining image of Christ the Lord hanging from the cross. Invited by His voice to the prey of immortal life, together with his wife Theopista and his two little sons Agapitus and Theopistus, he enrolled his name in the Christian warfare.

[Lectio5]
Soon afterwards, having returned to the place of the former vision, as the Lord had commanded him, he heard Him foretelling how great things he would thereafter have to endure for His glory. Wherefore, having suffered incredible calamities with wonderful patience, he was in a short time reduced to the extremity of want. And when he was compelled to withdraw himself secretly, on the journey he first bewailed his wife, and then also his children, miserably snatched from him. Encompassed by such great hardships, he lay hidden for a long time in a distant region, acting as a steward, until, refreshed by a heavenly voice and sought out again by Trajan on a new occasion, he is once more set over the war.

[Lectio6]
In that expedition, having unexpectedly recovered his children together with his wife, he enters the City as victor amid the great congratulation of all. But a little later, being commanded to sacrifice to the vain gods for the victory obtained, he most constantly refused. And when he was in vain tried by various arts to renounce the faith of Christ, together with his wife and children he is exposed to the lions. The emperor, stirred by their gentleness, orders them to be cast into a brazen bull made glowing by fires placed beneath, where, having consummated their martyrdom in the praises of God, on the twelfth of the Calends of October they flew to everlasting felicity. Their bodies, unharmed, having been religiously buried by the faithful, were afterwards honourably translated to the church erected in their name.
