[Officium]
Saints Isaac Jogues, John de Brébeuf and their Companion Martyrs

[Rank]
;;Duplex;;3;;vide C3

[Rule]
vide C3;
Quorum Festum

[Oratio]
O God, who didst consecrate the first-fruits of the faith in the northern regions of America by the preaching and the blood of Thy holy Martyrs Isaac, John, and their Companions: grant propitiously; that, by their intercession, a flourishing harvest of Christians may everywhere increase day by day.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
From among those members of the Society of Jesus who in the middle of the seventeenth century most greatly illustrated the beginnings of the Church in North America, God chose for Himself eight most pure victims, that the seeds of the faith, watered by their blood, might thereafter spring up into more abundant harvests. All these Martyrs, born in France and, except for two laymen, advanced to the priesthood, having been sent by their Superiors into the Canadian Mission, which was then called New France, after countless apostolic journeys from the city of Quebec through those various immense regions, and most severe labours for the one and the same cause of religion, although not at one and the same time nor place, were most cruelly slain. As leaders and masters among them are rightly reckoned John de Brébeuf, born of noble stock at Condé in the former diocese of Bayeux, now of Coutances, and Isaac Jogues, of Orléans, men inflamed with strenuous and apostolic zeal, most given to mortification, most closely united with God in prayer, and sometimes also enlightened by heavenly visions. Not unlike them were the four companion priests, Anthony Daniel of Dieppe, Gabriel Lalemant and Charles Garnier of Paris, Noel Chabanel of Mende; all of whom faithfully discharged sacred offices in various villages, especially among the Hurons. 

[Responsory4]
R. Thy saints, O Lord, have obtained a wonderful way, serving Thy commandments, that they might be found unharmed in the strong waters:
The dry land appeared, and in the Red Sea a way without hindrance.
V. For He struck the rock and the waters flowed, and the torrents overflowed.
R. The dry land appeared, and in the Red Sea a way without hindrance.

[Lectio5]
The frequent incursions of the neighbouring Iroquois, often laying waste the Huron mission, not rarely called the life of the Fathers into extreme danger. In the year one thousand six hundred and forty-two, Isaac Jogues, together with René Goupil, a temporal coadjutor of the Society of Jesus, while journeying from the city of Quebec to the Hurons, fell among the Iroquois, who most terribly tortured him and his companion and reduced them to slavery. In the same year, on the twenty-ninth day of September, René, ordered to be slain by a barbarous old man in hatred of the saving cross, near Auriesville, in the present State of New York, breathed forth his most pure soul. Isaac in the following year, having obtained an opportunity of escape, returned into France; but after a year, seeking America again and advancing once and again to the same barbarians, his former tormentors, together with John de la Lande, likewise a coadjutor of the Society of Jesus, on the eighteenth day of October in the year one thousand six hundred and forty-six, in the present diocese of Albany, struck with a tomahawk, obtained the palm of martyrdom. But on the following day his companion John, crowned with the same crown, flew to heaven.

[Responsory5]
R. The Saints of God feared not the stripes of the executioners, dying for the name of Christ:
* That they might become heirs in the house of the Lord.
V. They delivered their bodies for God’s sake unto torments.
R. That they might become heirs in the house of the Lord.

[Lectio6]
In the year one thousand six hundred and forty-eight, on the fourth day of July, Anthony Daniel, who had charge of the village of Saint Joseph among the Hurons, fearlessly defending his flock against the invading Iroquois, pierced with arrows and fiery bullets, at the doors of the church as a good shepherd laid down his soul for the sheep. In the following year, on the sixteenth day of March, John de Brébeuf, rightly called the Apostle of the Hurons, together with Gabriel Lalemant, seized by the Iroquois, after long and most savage tortures, the barbarians themselves marvelling at the invincible fortitude of the champion of Christ, in the village of Saint Ignace in the present Canadian region called Ontario, died gloriously; whom on the following day Gabriel Lalemant followed by the same bloody way and with the same virtue. But in the month of December of the same year one thousand six hundred and forty-nine, on the vigil of the Immaculate Conception of the blessed Virgin Mary, Charles Garnier, pierced with wounds and struck with an axe, concluded his most innocent life with a glorious end. At length on the following day, Noel Chabanel, treacherously attacked by an apostate Huron and cast into the stream, in the Mission beloved by him, to the perpetual cultivation of which, nature in vain resisting, he had bound himself by a heroic vow, obtained the desired palm of martyrdom. These eight foremost Martyrs of North America the Supreme Pontiff Pius the Eleventh, in the sacred year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five, enrolled in the number of the Blessed, and five years later in the lists of the Saints.

[Responsory6]
R. As gold in the furnace the Lord hath proved the elect, and as a victim of a holocaust He hath received them; and in time there shall be respect of them:
* For grace and peace is to the elect of God.
V. They that trust in Him shall understand the truth: and the faithful in love shall rest in Him.
* For grace and peace is to the elect of God.
&Gloria
* For grace and peace is to the elect of God.

[Lectio94]
From among those members of the Society of Jesus who in the middle of the seventeenth century, cultivating the most severe mission of New France, most greatly illustratpd the first beginnings of the Church in North America, God chose for Himself eight most pure victims, immolated in the present regions of New York and Ontario in Canada. Among these as leaders and masters are held John de Brébeuf and Isaac Jogues, men strenuous and inflamed with apostolic zeal for souls, most given to mortification, most closely united with God in prayer. With not dissimilar virtues were adorned the priests Anthony Daniel, Gabriel Lalemant, Charles Garnier and Noel Chabanel, as also René Goupil and John de la Lande, helpers of the Fathers. A life, by reason of the character of the native Hurons and their most wretched manner of living, similar to martyrdom, they all crowned with a bloody death for the one cause of religion, although not in one place nor at one time; but some endured torments scarcely credible with such invincible fortitude that the barbarian executioners themselves admired them. Whom Pius the Eleventh enrolled in the number of the Blessed, and soon, made famous by miracles, in the number of the Saints.  
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
The reading of the holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luc 6:17-23
At that time: Jesus coming down from the mountain, stood in a plain place, and the company of His disciples, and a very great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast, both of Tyre and Sidon. And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Peter Canisius the Priest
!Notes on the Gospel lessons: on the feast day of All Saints, after the beginning 
I will note that Christ teaches and pronounces concerning beatitude far otherwise than this world. For it is proper to the world to feign the happiness of man in things caducous and fleeting, which are here to be left behind, just as if it were said: Blessed is the people that hath these things. Nay rather those whom Christ here pronounces blessed, the foolish world accounts only as miserable and unhappy, and after its custom despises and turns away from them, so that even Christ Himself testifies to the Apostles: Amen, amen I say to you, that you shall lament and weep, but the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful. And rightly said Solomon: He that walketh in the right way, and feareth God, is despised by him that goeth by an infamous way.  

[Responsory7]
R. For the testament of the Lord and the laws of their fathers, the Saints of God persevered in the love of brotherhood:
* Because there was always one spirit in them, and one faith.
V. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!  
R. Because there was always one spirit in them, and one faith.  

[Lectio8]
Finally blessed are they who suffer persecution for justice’ sake, and by their invincible patience obtain the eternal kingdom of Christ. To this kind of beatitude none are more to be referred than the protomartyr Stephen and the other most strong soldiers and martyrs of Christ: since, as sheep led to the slaughter, they fought even unto blood for Christian justice, so that no force and barbarity of enemies, no bitterness of tribulation or temptation could lead them away and separate them from the confession of the faith, the charity of Christ, the doctrine of the Church and the path of justice. O happy they who could testify with a good conscience: Who shall separate us from the charity of Christ? Shall tribulation? or distress? or famine? or nakedness? or danger? or persecution? or the sword? In all these things we overcome because of Him that hath loved us. We have passed through fire and water, and Thou hast brought us out into a refreshment.

[Responsory8]
R. My saints, who while placed in the flesh had a combat:
* Mercedem laboris ego reddam vobis.
V. Venite, benedicti Patris mei, percipite regnum.
R. Mercedem laboris ego reddam vobis.
&Gloria
R. Mercedem laboris ego reddam vobis.

[Lectio9]
Præterea felices omnes qui hanc scalam Jacob, superioribus gradibus octo distinctam, in hunc usque diem ascendunt, relictis omnibus impedimentis, ita ut capitales hostes, mundum, carnem ac satanam, cotidie vincant sibique virtutum studio gradum faciant ad beatam immortalitatem. Verum longe feliciores et illi, qui pugnandi et vincendi fecere finem et, ipso ascendendi labore confecto, ad certaminis coronam pervenerunt jamque, veluti rude donati et emeriti milites, quiete summa potiuntur, et in cælesti tabernaculo habitant, mercede amplissima cumulati. Nec dubium quin sancti Martyres piique Doctores præ ceteris florescant electis in perpetuas æternitates, quoniam ob virtutes heroicas aureolam, sicut Theologi vocant, et excellentem lauream peculiari privilegio consequentur.
&teDeum

