[Officium]
Saint Jerome, Priest, Confessor and Doctor of the Church

[Name]
Jerome

[Oratio]
O God, who didst deign to provide for Thy Church in the exposition of the sacred Scriptures the blessed Jerome, Thy Confessor, the greatest Doctor: grant, we beseech Thee; that, by his interceding merits, we may be able, with Thy help, to practise what he taught both by word and by work.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Jerome, the son of Eusebius, born at Stridon in Dalmatia under the emperor Constantius, was baptized as a youth at Rome, and was instructed in the liberal disciplines by Donatus and other most learned men. Then with a desire of learning he travelled through Gaul; where he cultivated some pious men and those learned in divine letters, and copied many sacred books with his own hand. Presently betaking himself into Greece, instructed in philosophy and eloquence, he flourished in the society of the greatest theologians. But especially he gave attention to Gregory Nazianzen at Constantinople; by which teacher he professes that he learned the sacred letters. Then for the sake of religion he visited the cradles of Christ the Lord, and surveyed the whole of Palestine; which pilgrimage, with the most learned of the Hebrews employed, he testifies was of much profit to him for the understanding of sacred Scripture.

[Lectio5]
Afterwards he withdrew into the vast solitude of Syria; where he spent four years in the reading of the divine books and in the contemplation of heavenly beatitude, tormenting himself with assiduous abstinence, the force of tears and the affliction of the body. Made priest by Paulinus the bishop of Antioch, he set out for Rome with Paulinus and Epiphanius to the Pontiff Damasus concerning the controversies of certain bishops, and was his helper in writing ecclesiastical letters. But being held by a desire for his former solitude, having returned to Palestine, unto the manger of Christ the Lord at Bethlehem, he instituted a certain heavenly manner of life in a monastery which had been built by Paula the Roman; and although he was variously tried by sicknesses and pains, he nevertheless overcame the discomforts of the body by pious labors and perpetual reading and writing.

[Lectio6]
As to an oracle, from all parts of the round world, questions of the divine Scripture to be explained were referred to him. Him the Pontiff Damasus, him Saint Augustine often consulted concerning the most difficult places of Scripture, on account of his singular doctrine, and the understanding not only of the Latin and Greek tongue, but also of the Hebrew and Chaldaic; and because, by the testimony of the same Augustine, he had read almost all writers. He attacked heretics with most keen writings; he always undertook the patronage of the pious and of Catholics. He translated the Old Testament from the Hebrew; the New, by the command of Damasus, he rendered according to the Greek fidelity, and also explained it in great part. Moreover he rendered into Latin many writings of learned men, and himself illustrated Christian discipline by other monuments of his own genius. Who, arriving at extreme old age, illustrious by sanctity and doctrine, under the Emperor Honorius, (420) migrated into heaven. Whose body, buried at Bethlehem, was afterwards translated to Rome into the basilica of Saint Mary at the Crib.

[Lectio94]
Jerome, born at Stridon in Dalmatia, was baptized as a youth at Rome, and was instructed in the liberal disciplines by Donatus and other most learned men. For the sake of religion, he surveyed the whole of Palestine. Afterwards he withdrew into the vast solitude of Syria, where he spent four years in the reading of the divine books and in the contemplation of heavenly beatitude. Made priest by Paulinus the bishop of Antioch and having returned into Palestine, at Bethlehem beside the crib of Christ the Lord he instituted a certain heavenly manner of life, and overcame the snares of the devil by pious labours and by perpetual reading and writing. As to an oracle, from everywhere questions of the divine Scripture to be explained were referred to him. Him the Roman Pontiff Damasus and Saint Augustine often consulted concerning the most difficult places of Scripture on account of his singular doctrine and the understanding not only of the Latin and Greek tongue, but also of the Hebrew and Chaldaic. He translated the Old Testament from the Hebrew; the New, rendered according to the Greek fidelity by the command of Damasus, he also explained in great part. In extreme old age he migrated into heaven. His body, buried at Bethlehem, was afterwards brought to Rome, and was laid in the basilica of Saint Mary Major.
&teDeum

[Lectio7]
The reading of the holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 5:13-19
At that time: Jesus said to His disciples: You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? And the rest.
_
Homily of Saint Jerome the Priest
!Book 1 of the Commentary on chapter 5 of Matthew
The Apostles and Doctors are called salt; because through them the whole race of men is seasoned. But if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? If the doctor shall have erred, by what other doctor shall he be corrected? It is good for nothing any more, but to be cast out, and to be trodden on by men. An example is taken from agriculture. For salt, as it is necessary for the seasoning of foods and for drying meats, so it has no other use. Certainly we read in the Scriptures that certain cities, by the wrath of the victors, were sown with salt, so that no shoot should arise in them.

[Lectio8]
Let doctors and bishops therefore beware, and let the powerful see that they powerfully suffer torments; and that there is no remedy, but that the ruin of the greater leads to hell. You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hid; neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it may shine to all that are in the house. He teaches the confidence of preaching, lest the Apostles hide themselves for fear, and be like a candle under a bushel; but with all liberty put themselves forth, that what they have heard in chambers, they may preach upon the housetops.

[Lectio9]
Do not think that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets; I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. Either because He fulfilled what was prophesied concerning Himself through others, or because He fulfilled by His preaching those things which previously had been rude and imperfect on account of the weakness of the hearers, taking away anger, excluding the turn of retaliation, and damning hidden concupiscence in the mind. Till heaven and earth pass. New heavens and a new earth are promised to us, which the Lord God is about to make. If therefore new ones are to be created, consequently the old ones are about to pass away.
&teDeum
