[Officium]
Thirteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Introitus]
!Ps 73:20; 73:19; 73:23
v. Have regard, O Lord, to Thy covenant, and forsake not unto the end the souls of Thy poor: arise, O Lord, and judge Thy cause, and forget not the voices of them that seek Thee.
!Ps 73:1
O God, why hast Thou cast us off unto the end: why is Thy wrath enkindled against the sheep of Thy pasture?
&Gloria
v. Have regard, O Lord, to Thy covenant, and forsake not unto the end the souls of Thy poor: arise, O Lord, and judge Thy cause, and forget not the voices of them that seek Thee.

[Oratio]
Almighty everlasting God, grant unto us an increase of faith, hope, and charity: and, that we may merit to attain what Thou promisest, make us to love what Thou commandest.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
!Gal 3:16-22
Brethren: To Abraham were the promises made, and to his seed. He saith not: And to his seeds, as of many; but as of one: And to thy seed, which is Christ. Now this I say: that the testament which was confirmed by God, the law which was made after four hundred and thirty years, doth not disannul, to make the promise of no effect. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise. Wherefore then was the law? It was set because of transgressions, until the seed should come, to whom He had promised, being ordained by Angels in the hand of a mediator. Now a mediator is not of one: but God is one. Was the law then against the promises of God? God forbid. For if there had been a law given which could give life, verily justice should have been by the law. But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by the faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.

[Graduale]
!Ps 73:20, 19, 22
Have regard, O Lord, to Thy covenant: and forget not unto the end the souls of Thy poor.
V. Arise, O Lord, and judge Thy cause: remember the reproach of Thy servants. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 89:1
V. Lord, Thou hast been our refuge from generation to generation. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 17:11-19
At that time: As Jesus was going to Jerusalem, He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as He entered into a certain town, there met Him ten men that were lepers, who stood afar off; and lifted up their voice, saying: Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. Whom when He saw, He said: Go, show yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass, as they went, they were made clean. And one of them, when he saw that he was made clean, went back, with a loud voice glorifying God, and he fell on his face before His feet, giving thanks: and this was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering, said: Were not ten made clean? and where are the nine? There is no one found to return and give glory to God, but this stranger. And He said to him: Arise, go thy way; for thy faith hath made thee whole.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 30:15-16
In Thee, O Lord, have I hoped; I said: Thou art my God, my times are in Thy hands.

[Secreta]
Be propitiated, O Lord, unto Thy people, be propitiated unto the gifts: that, being appeased by this oblation, Thou mayest both grant us pardon and concede what is asked.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Wis 16:20
Thou hast given us, O Lord, bread from heaven, having in it all that is delicious, and the sweetness of every taste.

[Postcommunio]
Having received, O Lord, the heavenly sacraments: we beseech Thee that we may profit unto the increase of eternal redemption.
$Per Dominum
