[Officium]
Seventeenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Introitus]
!Ps 118:137; 118:124
v. Thou art just, O Lord, and Thy judgment is right: deal with Thy servant according to Thy mercy.
!Ps 118:1
Blessed are the undefiled in the way: who walk in the law of the Lord.
&Gloria
v. Thou art just, O Lord, and Thy judgment is right: deal with Thy servant according to Thy mercy.

[Oratio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord, to Thy people to avoid diabolical contagions: and with a pure mind to follow Thee the only God.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
A reading from the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
!Eph 4:1-6
Brethren: I, a prisoner in the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation in which you are called, with all humility and mildness, with patience, supporting one another in charity, careful to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. One body and one Spirit; as you are called in one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in us all. Who is blessed for ever and ever. Amen.

[Graduale]
!Ps 32:12; 32:6
Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord: the people whom the Lord hath chosen for His inheritance.
V. By the word of the Lord the heavens were established: and all the power of them by the spirit of His mouth. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 101:2
V. O Lord, hear my prayer, and let my cry come unto Thee. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 22:34-46
At that time: The Pharisees came to Jesus: and one of them, a doctor of the law, asked Him, tempting Him: Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said to him: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind. This is the greatest and the first commandment. And the second is like to this: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments dependeth the whole law and the prophets. And the Pharisees being gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying: What think you of Christ? whose son is He? They say to Him: David’s. He saith to them: How then doth David in spirit call Him Lord, saying: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on My right hand, until I make Thy enemies Thy footstool? If David then call Him Lord, how is He his son? And no man was able to answer Him a word: neither durst any man from that day forth ask Him any more questions.

[Offertorium]
!Dan 9:17-19
I, Daniel, prayed to my God, saying: Hear, O Lord, the prayers of Thy servant: shine upon Thy sanctuary: and look with propitious countenance upon this people, upon whom Thy name is invoked, O God.

[Secreta]
We humbly beseech Thy majesty, O Lord: that these holy things which we perform may both free us from past offences and from future ones.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 75:12-13
Vow ye, and pay to the Lord your God, all you that round about Him bring presents: to Him that is terrible, even to Him who taketh away the spirit of princes: to the terrible with the kings of the earth.

[Postcommunio]
By Thy sanctifications, O almighty God, may both our vices be cured, and eternal remedies come to us.
$Per Dominum
