[Officium]
Fifteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Introitus]
!Ps 85:1-3
v. Incline Thine ear, O Lord, and hear me: save Thy servant, O my God, that trusteth in Thee: have mercy on me, O Lord, for I have cried to Thee all the day.
!Ps 85:4
Give joy to the soul of Thy servant, for to Thee, O Lord, I have lifted up my soul.
&Gloria
v. Incline Thine ear, O Lord, and hear me: save Thy servant, O my God, that trusteth in Thee: have mercy on me, O Lord, for I have cried to Thee all the day.

[Oratio]
May Thy continued mercy cleanse and defend Thy Church, O Lord: and because without Thee she cannot remain safe; may she ever be governed by Thy gift.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Galatians.
!Gal 5:25-26; 6:1-10
Brethren: If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be made desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another. Brethren, and if a man be overtaken in any fault, you, who are spiritual, instruct such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another’s burdens: and so you shall fulfil the law of Christ. For if any man think himself to be something, whereas he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. But let every one prove his own work, and so he shall have glory in himself only, and not in another. For every one shall bear his own burden. And let him that is instructed in the word, communicate to him that instructeth him, in all good things. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For what things a man shall sow, those also shall he reap. For he that soweth in his flesh, of the flesh also shall reap corruption. But he that soweth in the spirit, of the spirit shall reap life everlasting. And in doing good, let us not fail. For in due time we shall reap, not failing. Therefore, whilst we have time, let us work good to all men, but especially to those who are of the household of the faith.

[Graduale]
!Ps 91:2-3
It is good to give praise to the Lord: and to sing to Thy name, O most High.
V. To shew forth Thy mercy in the morning, and Thy truth in the night. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 94:3
V. For the Lord is a great God, and a great King over all the earth. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 7:11-16
At that time, Jesus went to a town called Naim; and His disciples and a large crowd went with Him. And as He drew near the gate of the town, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and a large gathering from the town was with her. And the Lord, seeing her, had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep. And He went up and touched the stretcher; and the bearers stood still. And He said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And he who was dead, sat up, and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother. But fear seized upon all, and they began to glorify God, saying, A great prophet has risen among us, and God has visited His people.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 39:2-4
With expectation I have waited for the Lord, and He had regard to me: and He heard my prayer, and He put a new canticle into my mouth, a song to our God.

[Secreta]
May Thy sacraments, O Lord, keep us, and ever defend us against the assaults of the devil.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!John 6:52
The bread that I will give is My Flesh for the life of the world.

[Postcommunio]
May the working of the heavenly gift, we beseech Thee, O Lord, possess our minds and bodies: that not our own sense, but the effect thereof may continually prevent us.
$Per Dominum
