[Officium]
Sixteenth Sunday after Pentecost

[Introitus]
!Ps 85:3; 85:5
v. Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I have cried to Thee all the day: for Thou, O Lord, art sweet and mild, and plenteous in mercy to all that call upon Thee.
!Ps 85:1
Incline Thine ear, O Lord, and hear me: for I am needy and poor.
&Gloria
v. Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I have cried to Thee all the day: for Thou, O Lord, art sweet and mild, and plenteous in mercy to all that call upon Thee.

[Oratio]
May Thy grace, we beseech Thee, O Lord, always go before us and follow after: and make us continually intent upon good works.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
A reading from the Epistle of blessed Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
!Eph 3:13-21
Brethren: I pray you not to faint at my tribulations for you, which is your glory. For this cause I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom all paternity in heaven and earth is named, that He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened by His Spirit with might unto the inward man, that Christ may dwell by faith in your hearts: that, being rooted and founded in charity, you may be able to comprehend, with all the saints, what is the breadth and length and height and depth: to know also the charity of Christ, which surpasseth all knowledge, that you may be filled unto all the fulness of God. Now to Him who is able to do all things more abundantly than we desire or understand, according to the power that worketh in us: to Him be glory in the Church, and in Christ Jesus, unto all generations, world without end. Amen.  

[Graduale]
!Ps 101:16-17
The Gentiles shall fear Thy name, O Lord, and all the kings of the earth [shall fear] Thy glory.  
V. For the Lord hath built up Sion, and He shall be seen in His glory. Alleluia, alleluia.  
!Ps 97:1
V. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: because the Lord hath done wonderful things. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 14:1-11
At that time: When Jesus went into the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees on the sabbath day to eat bread, they watched Him. And behold, there was a certain man before Him that had the dropsy. And Jesus answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day? But they held their peace. But He taking him, healed him, and sent him away. And answering them, He said: Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit, and will not immediately draw him out on the sabbath day? And they could not answer Him to these things. And He spoke a parable also to them that were invited, marking how they chose the first seats at the table, saying to them: When thou art invited to a wedding, sit not down in the first place, lest perhaps one more honourable than thou be invited by him; and he that invited thee and him, come and say to thee: Give this man place: and then thou begin with shame to take the lowest place. But when thou art invited, go, sit down in the lowest place: that when he who invited thee cometh, he may say to thee: Friend, go up higher. Then shalt thou have glory before them that sit at table with thee: because every one that exalteth himself shall be humbled, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 39:14-15
Look down, O Lord, to help me: let them be confounded and ashamed that seek after my soul to take it away: look down, O Lord, to help me.

[Secreta]
Cleanse us, we beseech Thee, O Lord, by the effect of the present sacrifice: and in Thy mercy perfect us, that we may merit to be partakers thereof.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Ps 70:16-18
O Lord, I will be mindful of Thy justice alone: Thou hast taught me, O God, from my youth: and unto old age and grey hairs, O God, forsake me not.

[Postcommunio]
Purify, we beseech Thee, O Lord, our minds benignly, and renew us by Thy heavenly sacraments: that we may consequently obtain help both for body present and future.
$Per Dominum
